+++
author = ["authors/jenna.md"]
categories = ""
date = 2020-02-11T01:10:00Z
disclaimer = ""
draft = true
image_gallery = []
postamble = ""
preamble = ""
primary_image = ""
primary_image_credit = ""
related_articles = []
related_companies = []
related_people = []
short_description = "short"
slug = "2021coc"
title = "#2021COC"
youtube_url = ""

+++
There's beauty in the Canadian Opera Company's freshly-announced 2020/21 season. It's symmetrical; there are three revivals - pretty recent-history ones, too - and three Interesting Productions. Of course, there are interesting things about each production, but the three new items on the season line-up have a special sort of intrigue.

The fall starts off with what's probably the most Interesting of them all: Richard Wagner's _Parsifal_ (Sept. 25-Oct. 18, 2020). François Girard directs, Michael Levine designs (#gocanada), and it's going to be huge - literally. The orchestra will be twice its usual size, a cast of more than 100, and the opera will last nearly six hours - very hardcore. Christopher Ventris sings the title role, alongside Johan Reuter as Amfortas and Tanja Ariane Baumgartner as Kundry. I remember Reuter well from the COC's _Die Walküre_, but I've not yet heard Ventris or Baumgartner. A quick Google of them tell me that they're both pros at this sort of thing, and a _Parsifal_ casting is something I'd gladly leave in the hands of Alexander Neef, General Director of the COC (for one more season).

## _Le nozze di Figaro_

* Cupid-winged ghost-Cherubino production - which is convenient because it's D'Angelo
* much of the same casting as last time (Braun, Wagner)

## _Carmen_

* Ok? Seems soon to revive it, but good excuse to show off young talent in casting
* J'nai Bridges as Carmen is exciting, plus Fabiano and El-Khoury (they're good friends)
* 

## _Katya Kabanova_

* Majeski is great find, her castmates are super interesting (Coloumbe, eg.)
* David Alden, like it or not, but for some reason I trust him with this one
* 

## _La traviata_

* Stephen Lord!
* Radvanovsky/Calleja/Ruciński - weird flex for a _Traviata_

## _Orfeo_

* this is the one to get excited about
* Neher/Asselin will be a dynamite pair
* Davies is a big deal

## Extras

* _Fantasma_, Ian Cusson's kid-friendly opera, Dec. 2020
* 