+++
author = ["authors/jenna.md"]
categories = "Editorial"
date = "2019-02-05T02:43:43+00:00"
disclaimer = ""
draft = true
image_gallery = []
postamble = ""
preamble = ""
primary_image = ""
primary_image_credit = ""
related_articles = []
related_companies = []
related_people = []
short_description = "short"
slug = "coc1920"
title = "#COC1920"
youtube_url = ""

+++
I suppose after all the hype that kicked off the Canadian Opera Company's 2018/19 season - the one that began with Rufus Wainwright's _Hadrian_ - the trade-off is a safe line-up in 2019/20.

Safe is a word for #COC1920; you could also call it the meat-and-potatoes season, or even "No Dissonance Allowed". The six operas are taken from a small - yet lovely - slice of opera's history, leaving out everything pre-Rossini, post-Puccini, and in English.

The fall of 2019 starts with a new production of Puccini's **_Turandot_**, directed by Robert Wilson, running **September 28 to October 27, 2019**. Two casts share the run, including [Tamara Wilson](/scene/people/tamara-wilson/) and Marjorie Owens (sharing the title role), tenors Sergey Skorokhodov and Kamen Chanev (Calaf), and Joyce El-Khoury and Vanessa Vasquez as Liù.

Then there's the **_Rusalka_**, which is what I'm most excited about in the 2019/20 line-up; it runs **October 12-26, 2019**. [Sondra Radvanovsky](/talking-with-singers-sondra-radvanovsky/) (yup) sings the title role, and I didn't know until now how excited I would get about hearing Sondra sing a role that's no in Italian. Like, I can't explain it, but it's super exciting. Also awesome: this production of _Rusalka_ will mark David McVicar's COC debut.

It feels slightly soon to revive Joan Font's clownish, saturated-colour production of **_The Barber of Seville_** (running **January 19 to February 7, 2020**), but I'm thrilled about it because it features Emily D'Angelo as Rosina. The young mezzo has had a wicked handful of seasons now, winning competitions and making serious debuts while still in her early 20s. D'Angelo is part of this quite Italian team, which also includes baritone Vito Priante as Figaro, and maestra Speranza Scappucci at the podium.

 