+++
date = "2015-04-06T19:56:00+01:00"
discipline = "Mezzo-soprano"
lastmod = "2017-03-15T11:39:00+00:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1489577962969/2017-03-15---Alice_Coote_pc_Ben_Ealovega.jpg.jpg"
primary_image_credit = "Ben Ealovega."
publishDate = "2015-04-06T19:56:00+01:00"
slug = "alice-coote"
title = "Alice Coote"
[[social_media]]
platform = " Twitter"
template = "social-media"
url = "https://twitter.com/AliceCoote"
+++

World renowned Mezzo-soprano Alice Coote is regarded as one of the great artists of our day. Equally famed on the great operatic stages as in concert and recital she has been named the ‘ superlative British Mezzo’  (San Francisco Chronicle). Her performances have been described as ‘ breathtaking in [its] sheer conviction and subtlety of perception’  (The Times) and her voice as ‘ beautiful, to be sure, but, more importantly, it thrills you to the marrow.’  (The Daily Telegraph). Renowned on the great recital, concert and opera stages of the world, Alice Coote’ s career has taken her from her beginnings in the north of England (born in Cheshire), singing in local festivals and playing oboe in the Cheshire Youth Orchestra, to being regarded as one of the great artists of today. The recital platform is central to her musical life, and she performs throughout the UK, Europe and the US, at the Wigmore Hall (where she has been a resident artist), the BBC Proms, Concertgebouw, Vienna Konzerthaus, the Lincoln Centre NY and Carnegie Hall, among many other prestigious venues. Most recently, she has debuted Schubert’ s Winterreise at ‘’ The Stars of the White Nights’’  Mariinsky Festival in St Petersburg where she returns this year to perform Schumann’ s Frauenliebe und Leben and Dichterliebe. Acclaimed in particular for Strauss, Mahler, Berlioz, Mozart, Händel and Bach with orchestras such as London Symphony Orchestra, Boston Symphony Orchestra, New York Philharmonic, Chicago Symphony Orchestra, OAE, The English Concert, Kammerphilharmonie Bremen, Hallé and Concertgebouw; she has collaborated with conductors such as Gergiev, Dohnanyi. 

In her operatic engagements Coote spends a large part of her time engaged abroad, and in the UK, interpreting male and female roles, such as Dejanira *Hercules*, Leonore *La Favorite*, Carmen, Charlotte *Werther*, Dorabella *Così fan Tutte*, Lucretia *The Rape of Lucretia*, Marguerite *Damnation de Faust*, Penelope *Ulysses*, Octavian *Der Rosenkavalier*, Composer *Ariadne*, Orfeo, Idamante *Idomeneo*, both Poppea and Nerone *L’ incoronazione di Poppea*, Hänsel *Hänsel und Gretel*, Sesto *La Clemenza di Tito*, Sesto *Giulio Cesare*, Maffio Orsini *Lucretia Borgia*, Le Prince Charmant *Cendrillon*, Ruggiero *Alcina* and the title role in *Ariodante*. She has performed these roles at Opera North, Welsh National Opera, Scottish Opera, English National Opera, Glyndebourne and the Royal Opera House. In Europe she has appeared at opera houses including Opéra de Paris and the Théâtre des Champs-Elysées, in Amsterdam, Geneva, Munich, Frankfurt, and Salzburg. USA and Canadian appearances include the Chicago Lyric Opera, Seattle, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Toronto and the Metropolitan Opera New York. Her many recordings and DVD appearances include on CD: an album of English Song, *The Power of Love* (Hyperion); Songs by Robert Schumann and Gustav Mahler (EMI); Händel’ s *Messiah* and Mahler 2 (EMI); Angel *Dream of Gerontius* and *The Apostles* (Hallé); Composer *Ariadne auf Naxos* (Chandos); *Orfeo* (Virgin Classics); *Choice of Hercules* (Hyperion); Brahms *Alto Rhapsody* (Tudor); Schubert’ s *Winterreise* (Wigmore Hall Live); Mahler’ s *Das Lied von der Erde* (Pentatone); On DVD: Händel’ s *Messiah* (EMI); Hansel *Hansel and Gretel* (EMI); Nerone *Poppea* (Decca); Ruggiero *Alcina* (Arte) Maffio Orsini *Lucrezia Borgia* (Medici Arts).

Highlights for the 2014/15 season included performances of Mahler’ s Symphony No. 2 with the LPO, *Der Rosenkavalier* at the Vienna State Opera, *Xerxes* at the ENO, and the release of her Handel Arias CD with Harry Bicket and The English Concert (Hyperion).  Coote also starred in the leading role of *Hansel and Gretel* at the Teatro Real Madrid as well as presenting an engaging theatrical journey of Handel’ s repertoire at the Brighton Festival exploring gender in “Being Both” with Susannah Waters. Coote begins an active 2015/16 season by firstly taking her ‘ Being Both’  project to BBC Proms; performing Bach’ s B minor mass with the Hamburg Symphony; Verdi’ s *Requiem* with the Halle Orchestra; a tour of *Ariadne auf Naxos* in Munich; a concert of Mahler’ s *Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen* with the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra in Amsterdam and a return to the Lyric Opera of Chicago in early 2016 for a performance of *Der Rosenkavalier*.  Later engagements in 2016 include a performance of the *Dream of Gerontius* with the LSO as well as the likes of the Nederlands Philharmonisch Orkest in which Coote will perform Mahler, an acclaimed facet of her repertoire. Her two most recent recordings include ‘ Schumann Lieder’  with Christian Blackshaw recorded live at Wigmore Hall and a French Song disk ‘ L’ Heure Exquise’  with Graham Johnson recorded for Hyperion. 
