+++
date = "2018-04-22T20:54:00-04:00"
discipline = "Countertenor"
lastmod = "2018-04-22T20:54:00-04:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1524444711995/IMG_8879-2.jpg.jpg"
publishDate = "2018-04-22T20:54:00-04:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/pacific-opera-victoria.md","scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md","scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md"]
slug = "andrey-nemzer"
title = "Andrey Nemzer"
website = "http://andreynemzer.com/eng/"
+++

During the early years of his career, countertenor Andrey Nemzer has become distinguished for the unique size, flexibility and range of his instrument. A 3rd Prize Winner of Placido Domingo’s Operalia 2014 and The Winner of Metropolitan Opera National Council 2012, Mr. Nemzer has been a soloist with a number of distinguished opera houses. Mr. Nemzer covered the title role of Handel’s *Giulio Cesare in Egitto* in a new production for the Metropolitan Opera, debuted on Metropolitan Opera stage in role of The Guardian in R. Strauss’ *Die Frau ohne Schatten* and covered there the role of Prince Orlofsky in J. Strauss’ *Die Fledermaus* in Metropolitan Opera’s new production. His engagements also included the Pittsburgh Symphony for Orff’s *Carmina Burana*. 

In 2014 – 2015 season Mr. Nemzer debuted with the Opera San Antonio, as Agnes The Digger in Tobias Picker’s *Fantastic Mr. Fox*, and Spoleto Festival USA, as Sole/Re Alfonso in Cavalli’s *Veremonda*. He also covered the role of Arsace in San Francisco Opera in production of Handel’s *Partenope*. During Summer 2015 Mr. Nemzer performed a recital of Russian Music with Opera Theater of Pittsburgh Summerfest and appeared in Chautauqua Symphony production of Orff’s *Carmina Burana*. December 2015 Mr. Nemzer made an appearance as Prince Orlofsky in J. Strauss’ *Die Fledermaus* at the Metropolitan Opera. He also performed as alto solo in Bach’s *St. John’s Passion* with Pittsburgh Symphony and participated in Opera Theater of Pittsburgh Summerfest 2016 where he performed the title role in Handel’s *Julius Caesar in Egypt* and took part in The Three (Counter) Tenors recital. Last season Mr. Nemzer participated in a Gala-Concert on stage of Bolshoi Theater Belarus and took part in Pittsburgh Festival Opera, where he portrayed the role of *Xerxes* in Handel’s opera and repeated another series of The Three (Counter) Tenors recital. 

This season Mr. Nemzer will appear in Rachmaninoff International Russian Music Festival in San Francisco, CA. He will be the alto soloist with Pittsburgh Symphony performance of Handel’s *Messiah*, will participate in a Christmas Concert on stage of The Pillar Hall of The Union House in Moscow, Russia. Mr. Nemzer will also appear on the stage of Bolshoi Theater of Belarus for a gala concert and will portrait the lead role in Handel’s *Rinaldo* with Pacific Opera Victoria Canada. Mr. Nemzer will perform an unusual for a countertenor role of Jezibaba in Dvorak’s *Rusalka* with Resonance Works Pittsburgh and in August 2018 appear with recital series at Festival de Belle-Ile, France.

A native of Moscow (Russia), Andrey Nemzer began his studies at Moscow Choir College, after which he became a touring soloist with the Moscow Boys Choir under direction of Victor Popov. During this time, he participated in Russian premiere of Mozart’s Masonic Cantatas at Moscow Conservatory’s Great Hall with the eminent pianist and conductor Mikhail Pletnev. Mr. Nemzer frequently collaborates with many renowned instrumental and vocal ensembles of Russia including the Tchaikovsky Symphony Orchestra of Moscow Radio under Vladimir Fedoseev, Moscow Soloists Chamber Orchestra, The Pocket Symphony, Moscow Synod Choir, “Intrada” Vocal Ensemble, The Vocal Male Capella “Blagovest”, The Moscow Sacred Music Ensemble. In The US, he is the principal soloist with The Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh and frequently appears on stage of Opera Theater of Pittsburgh Summerfest. Mr. Nemzer began his singing career as a spinto tenor, where favorite credits included Russian premiers of Berg’s *Lulu* (Alwa) and Gretry’s *Peter The Great* (Alexis), staged at the Helikon-Opera in Moscow, Russia, and brought to Santander Opera Festival, Peralada Opera Festival and Beijing International Opera Festival, all in 2002. The artist’s voice can be heard on the soundtracks of the film “Leningrad” by Igor Vishnevetsky, “Tsar” and “The Conductor” by Pavel Lungin. 

Andrey Nemzer was The Winner of the 2011 Mildred Miller International Voice Competition, 2nd Prize Winner of the 2012 Gerda Lissner Foundation Competition, 1st Prize Winner in the 2016 3rd Minsk International Christmas Singing Competition, 3rd Prize Winner at 2017 Giusy Devinu International Voice Competition in Cagliari, Italy, 1st Prize Winner at 2017 Concosro Giordani in Charlotte, NC, 1st Prize Winner at 2017 Jensen Foundation Voice Competition in New York City, and 1st Prize Winner of 2017 Francisco Araiza International Voice Competition in Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico. The artist holds and Artist Diploma from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh.
