+++
discipline = "Baritone"
draft = true
primary_image = ""
primary_image_credit = ""
related_companies = ["scene/companies/tapestry-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-banff-centre.md", "scene/companies/soundstreams.md", "scene/companies/against-the-grain-theatre.md", "scene/companies/opera-inreach.md"]
slug = "andrew-adridge"
social_media = []
title = "Andrew Adridge"
website = "https://andrewadridge.com/andrew-adridge"

+++
Toronto-born baritone Andrew Adridge is a proud Guyanese Canadian multidisciplinary artist and arts administrator known for his commitment to equity within the sector and passion for innovation. He is a graduate of the University of Toronto, BMus. Performance (2016), and MM. Opera (2018). Credits at UofT Opera include, Bacchus in Offenbach's _Orphée aux enfers_ (2016), the title role in _Don Giovanni_ (2017), and Sam Jenkins in Gershwin’s _Of thee I sing_ (2018). As a member of the Nathaniel Dett Chorale, Andrew made his Kennedy Centre debut in Washington, D.C. on the Millennium Stage as a soloist in Sydney Guillaume’s _Ayiti 1,2,3_ (2018) and his Four Seasons Centre for the Performing Arts Debut in Toronto as a part of Jesse Norman’s Glenn Gould Prize Gala. He is currently a baritone lead at Timothy Eaton Memorial Church. He was also the 2017 winner of the George Shirley Vocal Competition in Ann Arbour, Michigan. Andrew has attended summer programs both in Canada and in the United States including NUOVA, The Chautauqua Institution Voice Program, and the Banff program. Most recent singing credits include: Stephen Marshall in Nicole Lizée’s _No One’s Safe_ with the Opera in the 21st Century program at Banff Centre, Workshopping and Performing in Soundstreams’ _Two Odysseys: Pimooteewin / Gállábártnit_, singing the role of Schaunard in Puccini/Ivany’s _La Bohème_ in Against the Grain Theatre’s Canada-wide touring production, and a return to the baritone  role in Soundstreams’ Electric _Messiah_.

Andrew’s passion for the art form extends beyond performing. He is an avid writer having contributed to both _Opera Canada_ and _Ludwig Van Toronto_ and continues his pursuits through his personal blog and through spoken word bringing to light issues around artistry, identity, and race. He was a member of the Portfolio Artist Collective with Opera.ca as the Operations Associate which is the representative body for opera in Canada. He currently works for Tapestry Opera as the Advancement Associate and also is the Co Founder of Opera InReach an initiative aimed at examining the civic impact of opera, creating an authentic Canadian identity for it, and engaging the next generation with equitable and diverse digital programming and mentorship.

Andrew recently made his directorial debut as the Associate Director on the Canadian Opera Company’s _Mozart’s Requiem_ in collaboration with Against the Grain Theatre. He looks forward to stage directing Edmonton Opera’s Valentine’s Day Gala in February of 2022. Andrew enjoys experiencing several aspects of his beautiful homeland of Canada. He graciously acknowledges the traditional caretakers of the land he calls home. The Mississaugas of the Credit, the Anishnabeg, the Chippewa, the Haudenosaunee and the Wendat peoples.