+++
date = "2017-02-03T12:41:00+00:00"
discipline = "Tenor"
lastmod = "2017-02-03T12:43:00+00:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1486125546762/201-02-03---Schager-Credit-David-Jerusalem.jpg.jpg"
primary_image_credit = "David Jerusalem"
publishDate = "2017-02-03T12:41:00+00:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/canadian-opera-company.md","scene/companies/bayerische-staatsoper.md","scene/companies/semperoper-dresden.md","scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md","scene/companies/teatro-alla-scala.md","scene/companies/oper-frankfurt.md"]
slug = "andreas-schager"
title = "Andreas Schager"
website = "http://www.andreas-schager.com/"
_template = "people_single"
+++

Austrian tenor Andreas Schager has been acclaimed throughout Europe and North America for his performances of highly demanding parts of the Heldentenor repertoire.

Mr. Schager starts the 2016-17 season as Florestan in *Fidelio* conducted by Daniel Barenboim at the Staatsoper Unter den Linden in Berlin and then goes on to sing Tristan in *Tristan und Isolde* with Teatro dell’Opera di Roma. Further engagements this season include his North American debut as Siegfried in *Götterdämmerung* with the Canadian Opera Company in Toronto and with Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden and Semperoper Dresden, Siegfried in *Siegfried* in Leipzig and Wiesbaden, and the title role in *Parsifal* at the Bayreuther Festspiele. Future seasons will see him return to the Opéra National de Paris as Parsifal and debut at the Metropolitan Opera in New York.

Mr. Schager started the 2015-16 season singing the title role in Wagner´s *Tannhäuser* at Vlaamse Opera. Audiences in Berlin had the opportunity to hear him a number of times at the Staatsoper Berlin as Max in Weber´s *Der Freischütz*, Erik in Wagner´s *Der fliegende Holländer*, the title role in Wagner´s *Parsifal* under Daniel Barenboim, and at the end of the season as Siegfried in Wagner´s *Siegfried* and *Götterdämmerung*, again under Daniel Barenboim. He sang Siegmund in Wagner´s *Die Walküre* in Baden Baden, at Theater Meiningen and at Oper Leipzig, where he also took the stage singing the title role in Wagner´s *Rienzi*. Andreas Schager appeared in two productions at the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg under Valery Gergiev, repeating Siegfried in *Götterdämmerung* and singing Tristan in Wagner´s *Tristan und Isolde*. He finished the season with his debut at the Bayreuth Festival as Erik in *Der fliegende Holländer* and *Parsifal*, and as soloist in Mahler’s Symphony No. 8 at the Lucerne Festival under Riccardo Chailly. In addition to his close collaboration with Daniel Barenboim and Valery Gergiev this season, Mr. Schager also appeared in concert twice with Marek Janowski and the Rundfunk-Sinfonieorchester Berlin, singing Beethoven´s Symphony No. 9 at the Konzerthaus Berlin and singing *Siegfried* at the Bunka Kaikan Hall in Tokyo. Another concert highlight was his performance of Schönberg’s *Gurrelieder* at L'Opéra Bastille in Paris under Philippe Jordan.

In the 2014-15 season some of Mr. Schager´s highlights included his concert performances as Menelas in Strauss´ *Die Ägyptische Helena* at Oper Frankfurt under Stefan Soltesz and his role debut as Parsifal at the Staatsoper Berlin under the baton of Daniel Barenboim and in a new production by Dmitri Tcherniakov. He also had his US and New York debuts as Apollo in Richard Strauss´ *Daphne* with the Cleveland Orchestra under Franz Welser-Möst in Cleveland and in New York, a role he also sang in a staged production at Théâtre du Capitole in Toulouse. He was engaged as Tristan in *Tristan und Isolde* under the baton of Myung-Whun Chung and Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra, as well as with the West Eastern Divan Orchestra under Daniel Barenboim in Sevilla.

In 2013-14 he could be heard at Vlaamse Opera and at Staatstheater Darmstadt in the role of Tristan in *Tristan und Isolde*, as Siegfried in *Siegried* and *Götterdämmerung* at Oper Halle and as Max in *Der Freischütz* at Oper Köln. He also sang Apollo in *Daphne* at Théâtre du Capitole in Toulouse, and later in that season the first act of *Die Walküre* in concert with the Bamberg Symphony under the direction of Jonathan Nott.

Highlights of the 2012-13 season included his performance of Siegfried in *Götterdämmerung* at the Staatsoper Berlin conducted by Daniel Barenboim, a production also presented at the BBC Proms in London and his debut at the Teatro alla Scala with the same piece. Mr. Schager came to international attention through celebrated performances of the title role in *Rienzi* with the Deutsche Oper Berlin, Teatro Real in Madrid, Rome Opera and with the Hamburg State Opera.

Mr. Schager studied with Prof. Walter Moore at the University for Music in Vienna. He completed his studies with James King and Toma Popescu. He began gaining acclaim through his performances in various competitions: in 1998 he won the Special Jury Prize at the 5th International Viennese Music Competition. The following year, he won the medal of the Foundation „Jean-Frédéric Perrenoud“ in Neuchâtel in Switzerland, the Critic’s Prize and the Prize of the town Constanza in the International Competition for Tenors in Lugoj, Romania, which led to his opera debut as Ferrando in *Così fan tutte* at the Festival Mozart in Schönbrunn.

In the following years he sang numerous lyrical tenor roles appearing on stage in a large number of theaters and festivals, like the Teatro Comunale di Bologna, the Theater Koblenz, the Alte Oper Frankfurt, the International Music Festival Chiemgau, and the Wiener Festwochen. He has also performed the roles of Der Steuermann and Erik in *Der Fliegende Holländer* with the Tiroler Festspiele Erl, where he also performed David in *Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg* under the direction of Gustav Kuhn.

His concert repertoire includes the main works of Bach, Beethoven, Haydn, Mendelssohn and Mozart. Andreas Schager has been featured in performances in the Franz Liszt Hall in Budapest, the Wiener Konzerthaus, the Wiener Musikverein and the Mozarteum Salzburg. He has performed Mahler’s *Das Lied von der Erde* at the Gustav Mahler Music Weeks in Toblach and the tenor part in Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 in Bolzano and Ravenna. He has given numerous Lied recitals, with Jörg Demus and Walter Moore, amongst others.
