+++
date = "2015-04-06T21:49:00-04:00"
discipline = "Soprano"
lastmod = "2015-04-06T21:49:00-04:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1428371043825/AnnaChristy-pc-DarioAcosta.jpg.jpg"
primary_image_credit = "Dario Acosta"
publishDate = "2015-04-06T21:49:00-04:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/canadian-opera-company.md","scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md","scene/companies/lyric-opera-of-chicago.md","scene/companies/english-national-opera.md","scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md","scene/companies/royal-opera-house.md","scene/companies/los-angeles-opera.md","scene/companies/dayton-opera.md"]
slug = "anna-christy"
title = "Anna Christy"
website = "http://www.annachristy.com/Home.html"
+++

<p>
	raised by the New York Times as "nimble of voice, body and spirit", soprano Anna Christy continues to impress and delight audiences with an extraordinary blend of sparkling voice, powerful stage presence and innate musicality.
</p>
<p>
	<span class="style_3">Anna Christy will be seen as Morgana in <em>Alcina</em> with Harry Bicket at the English Concert on tour in London, Madrid, Vienna, and New York in the 2014 – 2015 season. She also makes her New York City recital debut at Pace University's "Voce at Pace" series and will be seen with Baroque ensemble Les Vents Atlantiques as Cleopatra in <em>Giulio Cesare</em> at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam. In the summer of 2015, she returns to Santa Fe Opera as Marie in <em>La fille du régiment</em> and will be heard with the Netherlands Radio Philharmonic in Stravinsky's<em> Le rossignol</em> under Charles Dutoit.<br>
	<br>
	</span>Last season, Anna Christy made her role debut as Gilda in Christopher Alden's production of <em>Rigoletto</em> at the English National Opera. She was also seen at the Lyric Opera of Kansas City as Adele in <em>Die Fledermaus</em> and Susanna in <em>Le nozze di Figaro</em> at Central City Opera. Ms. Christy made a triumphant debut in her signature role of Cunegonde in <em>Candide</em> at the Tanglewood Festival with the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Ms. Christy began the 2012 – 2013 season as Cleopatra in a new production of Handel's <em>Julius Caesar</em> at English National Opera, followed by concerts of Ravel's <em>L'enfant et les sortilèges</em> and Stravinsky's <em>Le rossignol</em> with Charles Dutoit and the NHK Symphony in Tokyo. She returned to the Metropolitan Opera as Lisette in the Nicholas Joel production of Puccini's <em>La rondine</em> and Toronto audiences heard Ms. Christy as Lucia in the highly-acclaimed David Alden production of Donizetti's <em>Lucia di Lammermoor</em>. She closed the season as Emily Webb in Ned Rorem's Our Town with Central City Opera, followed by performances of Le feu, La princesse and <em>Le rossignol</em> in Ravel's <em>L'enfant et les sortilèges</em> at the Saito Kinen Festival with Seiji Ozawa conducting.<br>
	<br>
	Ms. Christy has recently been seen as Olympia in <em>Les contes d'Hoffmann</em> at Lyric Opera of Chicago, followed by her role debut as Zerbinetta in <em>Ariadne auf Naxos</em>. Ms. Christy dazzled as Morgana in David Alden's new production of Handel's A<em></em>lcina at Opéra National de Bordeaux and was a featured guest soloist at the annual Ford's Theatre Gala in Washington, DC. Ms. Christy also appeared as Olympia in <em>Les contes d'Hoffmann</em> at the Metropolitan Opera, Tytania in Britten's <em>A Midsummer Night's Dream</em> at Lyric Opera Chicago and the English National Opera. She returned to Santa Fe Opera as Kitty in the highly-acclaimed production of Menotti's <em>The Last Savage</em>.<br>
	<br>
	Ms. Christy has performed Blonde in <em>Die Entführung aus dem Serail</em> with the San Francisco Opera and sang the title role in Lucia di Lammermoor at English National Opera. She appeared as Oscar in Verdi's <em>Un ballo in maschera</em> at both the Paris Opera and at the Royal Opera House-Covent Garden. She was Cunegonde in Robert Carsen's production of <em>Candide</em> at English National Opera with further debuts at Teatro alla Scala and at Théâtre du Châtélet in the same production. Other opera credits include Lisette in<em> La rondine</em> with the San Francisco Opera, Adele in <em>Die Fledermaus</em> in Japan conducted by Seiji Ozawa, and Bianca in Rossini's Bianca e Falliero with the Washington Concert Opera. She also appeared as Oscar in Un ballo in maschera with San Francisco Opera and as Constance in Robert Carsen's production of Dialogues des Carmélites at the Lyric Opera of Chicago conducted by Andrew Davis. In addition, she made her debut at Opéra de Lille as Cleopatra in Handel's Giulio Cesare conducted by Emmanuelle Haïm and directed by David McVicar.<br>
	<br>
	On the concert stage, Ms. Christy has been a featured soloist the New York City Opera Gala "American Voices" and portrayed Angela in a semi-staged version of Kurt Weill's The Firebrand of Florence with the Collegiate Chorale at Carnegie Hall. She has performed Candide with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Carmina Burana with the Saint Louis Symphony, Mahler's Symphony No. 4, Candide, and Die Entführung aus dem Serail with the Chicago Symphony at the Ravinia Festival. Other concert engagements have included appearances with the Philadelphia Orchestra, National Symphony Orchestra, Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, New York Festival of Song, and solo recitals in Japan.<br>
	<br>
	Ms. Christy made her Metropolitan Opera debut as Papagena in Julie Taymor's new production of <em>Die Zauberflöte</em> conducted by James Levine followed by Hortense in the world premiere of Tobias Picker's <em>An American Tragedy</em>. Two more debuts followed with appearances as Muffin in the world premiere of William Bolcom's <em>A Wedding</em> at the Lyric Opera of Chicago and with Opera Theatre of Saint Louis as Zemire in Zemire et Azor. Other important engagements for Ms. Christy include her San Francisco debut as Angel More in The Mother of us All conducted by Donald Runnicles and directed by Christopher Alden; Marzelline in a concert version Fidelio with the San Francisco Symphony under Michael Tilson Thomas; Zerlina in <em>Don Giovanni</em> with the Los Angeles Opera; and Mrs. Nordstrom in A Little Night Music and Annabelle in The Glass Blowers with New York City Opera. She made her Santa Fe Opera debut as Jiang Ching in the world premiere of <em>Madame Mao</em> and later returned as Celia in <em>Lucio Silla</em>.<br>
	<br>
	Selected by New York City Opera, Anna Christy is the recipient of the Martin E. Segal Award presented annually to nominees by two of Lincoln Center's twelve resident arts constituents. She is also the recipient of a Richard Tucker Music Foundation Career Grant, the ARIA Award, Sullivan Foundation Grant, a Richard F. Gold Grant and the Shouse Debut Artist Award from Wolf Trap Opera.<br>
</p>
<p>
	Anna Christy was born in Chicago, Illinois and raised in Pasadena, California. She spent her summers in Tokyo, Japan, at her mother's family home, and is fluent in Japanese. Ms. Christy attended Polytechnic School in Pasadena and was a founding member of the Los Angeles Children's Chorus. She is a graduate of Rice University and the University of Cincinnati, College-Conservatory of Music. Ms. Christy currently resides with her husband and daughter in Colorado.
</p>
