+++
discipline = "Tenor"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1562711268/media/2019/07/CoreyTrahan.jpg"
primary_image_credit = ""
related_companies = ["scene/companies/des-moines-metro-opera.md"]
slug = "corey-trahan"
social_media = []
title = "Corey Trahan"
website = "https://www.coreytrahan.com/"

_template = "people_single"
+++
With over 85 roles in his repertoire, Corey Trahan is an active performer, educator and stage director in opera, oratorio, music theatre, operetta and recital venues. Known for his comic timing, versatile voice, and onstage charisma, he is being seen and heard internationally in repertoire ranging from operatic classics to modern musical theatre.

In the fall of 2018, Corey coordinated the 2018 John Alexander National Vocal Competition and presented “The Singing Actor Workshop” at the 2018 Florida Theatre Conference. He was guest vocalist with the Northwestern Florida Symphony Orchestra Holiday Pops Concert and performed recitals in Vienna, Austria and Atlanta, Georgia. In the Spring of 2019, Corey presented a concert of musical theatre selections at Eastern New Mexico University, performed Hysterium in Sondheim’s _A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum_ with the Natchez Festival of Music and joined Des Moines Metro Opera’s 2019 summer season for productions of Bernstein’s _Candide_ and Berg’s _Wozzeck_.

During the 2017-2018 season, Corey performed Monostatos in _The Magic Flute,_ Emperor Altoum in _Turandot_, Madame Armfeldt in _A Little Night Music_, Monsieur D’Arque in _Beauty and the Beast_ and music directed _Into the Woods_. Recent projects include guest artist residencies at Texas A & M (Laredo), University of Southern Mississippi and Augustana College as well as directing touring productions of _Stars of Tomorrow_ and the _2017 Christmas Gala_ for Northwestern State University.

During the 2016-2017 season, Corey performed John Utterson in _Jekyll and Hyde_ with the Academy of Children’s Theatre, music directed N.S.U.’s production of _Hooray for Hollywood_, presented two lectures at the first ever Southern Musical Theatre Conference in Mississippi and was a teaching intern at the International Performing Arts Institute in Germany. That fall, Corey music directed N.S.U.’s production of _Young Frankenstein_, performed two concert tours (_The Best of Broadway_ and _Home for the Holidays_) with Lisa Phifer (soprano) and Richard Seiler (pianist) and was Artistic Director for N.S.U.’s 2016 Christmas Gala. He performed Franklin D. Roosevelt in _Annie_ with the Academy of Children’s Theatre, music directed N.S.U.'s production of _Next to Normal_, performed _Hooray for Hollywood_ with Maryann Kyle (soprano) as part of Mississippi Opera’s Duling Hall Cabaret Series and performed Mordred in _Camelot_ at the 2017 Natchez Festival of Music. In March 2017, Corey presented "Voice Training for Musical Theatre" at S.E.T.C.'s 2017 National Conference in Lexington, Kentucky and lectured at the 2017 Pedagogy of Style Conference at the University of Southern Mississippi.

  
Corey began the 2015-2016 season by stage directing _Gypsy_ for Strauss Theatre Center and music directing N.S.U.'s production of _RENT._ He then was a featured clinician at the Educational Theatre Association's 2015 National Conference in St. Pete Beach, Florida. Corey presented concerts at Hodges Gardens (Florien) and for the Louisiana Partnership for the Arts' 2015 State Conference. He presented "The Singing Actor Workshop" at N.O.C.C.A. (New Orleans Center for Creative Arts) and Eastern New Mexico University. Corey was director of N.S.U.'s 2015 Christmas Gala, featuring a cast of 450+ artists, in Natchitoches and the historic Strand Theatre in Shreveport. During Spring 2016, Corey’s engagements included a faculty recital at N.S.U., presenting "The Singer Actor Workshop" at the University of Southern Mississippi, guest soloist for Monroe Symphony Orchestra's production of _The Music of Billy Joel & Elton John_ and guest vocalist for Louisiana Delta Ballet's production of _Power and Grace_. In addition, Corey music directed N.S.U.'s production of _Oklahoma_ and performed Monostatos in _Die Zauberflöte_ with Rapides Symphony Orchestra.   
  
Corey began the 2014-2015 season with "The Voices: One Night Only", a benefit concert for the Strauss Theatre Center. In June 2015, Corey joined Richard Seiler (pianist) to reprise Schumann's _Dichterliebe: Opus 48_ for Grace Episcopal Church's Summer Concert Series and was named General Manager of Strauss Theatre Center. Corey presented a concert of sacred music in Baton Rouge and performed Monsieur Thenardier (role debut) in _Les Miserables in Concert_ with the Strauss Theatre Center. As the new Director of Music Theatre at Northwestern State University, Corey served as music director for _Sweeney Todd_ and "Broadway to Go", an educational outreach tour featuring NSU Music Theatre Students. As a guest artist/clinician, Corey presented a master class for singing actors at the 2014 N.A.T.S. Southern Region Conference. Corey traveled to Houston to present singing actor master classes for potential high school music theatre students. Spring 2015 began with a faculty recital at Northwestern State University, performing the bass solos in Bach's _BMV 78_ with Austin Baroque Orchestras and emceeing the 2015 ArtsWork Awards Gala. Corey then joined South Dakota Chorale for performances at the 2015 A.C.D.A. National Convention in Salt Lake City. Corey returned to perform _A Night at the Movies_ with Monroe Symphony Orchestra and debuted with Richardson Symphony Orchestra performing the same concert. Corey served dual roles as music/stage director for _Avenue Q_ at Northwestern State University. He then performed the baritone solos in Durufle's _Requiem_ with Louisiana Tech University. During summer 2015, Corey music directed _I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change_ for Northwestern State University, stage directed and performed Luther Billis in with the Monroe Symphony Orchestra and was co-director of Texas A & M's 2015 Singer-Actor Intensive.   
  
The 2013-2014 season featured Corey in several projects around Asia. In June 2013, Corey produced and performed "You Make Me Feel So Young", a concert of Broadway music. In July 2013, Corey directed and was the Emcee for three performances of Rodgers and Hammerstein's _South Pacific in Concert_. In August 2013, Corey was featured in "Broadway and Beyond", a showcase of Mahidol University's Music Theatre faculty. During October 2013, he organized an intensive music theatre training program presented in metropolitan Bangkok. In November 2013, Corey debuted with the Bangkok Theatre Festival in _I Am What I Am_, a cabaret co-written with Shelley Cooper (soprano). In December 2013, he performed holiday concerts around Bangkok and produced/directed a cabaret of Disney music. In February 2014, Corey produced/directed _Stars of Tomorrow_. March 2014 featured concerts at Bangkok's Sala Sudasiri Sobha and the Lotus Pang Suan Kaew Hotel in Chiangmai, Thailand.   
  
Engagements for the 2012-2013 season included return visits to Fort Worth Opera as Spoletta in _Tosca_ and Opera Birmingham for _Madama Butterfly_ (as Goro) and _Die Zauberflöte_ (as Monostatos). Corey debuted with the Naples Philharmonic for his role premier of Monsieur Triquet in _Eugene Onegin_. Recently Corey made his international debut performing the roles of Lacouf and Le Journaliste Parisien in Poulenc's _Les Mamelles de Tiresias_ in Bangkok, Thailand.   
  
The 2011-2012 season began with Mr. Trahan’s performances of Lun Tha in _The King and I_ at Ash Lawn Opera. He debuted with Mississippi Opera in his role premiere of Goro in _Madama Butterfly._ Corey returned to Santa Fe as Monostatos in _Die Zauberflöte_ with the Santa Fe Concert Association and Opera Birmingham as Remendado in _Carmen_. Corey visited his home state of Louisiana for two events: guest vocalist with Louisiana Delta Ballet and guest recitalist at the University of Louisiana. Corey Trahan’s 2010-2011 season included performances of Mr. Erlanson in _A Little Night Music_ at St. Petersburg Opera (Fl), the role of Giordano Bruno in the new opera _Bliss_ by Joseph Illick, and as a featured soloist in a _Jacques Brel is Alive and Living in Paris,_ both with the Santa Fe Concert Association.   
  
In previous seasons, Mr. Trahan has been seen as Pang in _Turandot_ and Don Basilio in _Le Nozze di Figaro_ with Opera Birmingham, Kaspar in _Amahl and the Night Visitors_ with the Santa Fe Concert Association, Dr. Blind/ Ivan/ Frosch in _Die Fledermaus_ at Amarillo Opera and Salt Marsh Opera, Njegus in _The Merry Widow_ at Opera New Jersey, Monostatos in _Die Zauberflöte_ at OperaWorks! in Los Angeles, Mordred in _Camelot_ and Don Curzio in _Le Nozze di Figaro_ at Ash Lawn Opera Festival, Will Parker in _Oklahoma_ and Matt in _The Fantastiks_ at Natchez Festival of Music, and was part of the World Premiere cast of _Before Night Falls_ as the Visa/Customs Official at Fort Worth Opera.   
  
Corey has performed with numerous orchestras including the Bangkok Symphony Orchestra, Rapides Symphony Orchestra, Akron Symphony, Lake Charles Symphony, Shreveport Symphony, Brazos Symphony, Monroe Symphony Orchestra, the Jefferson Performing Arts Society in New Orleans and Houston Masterworks.   
  
Corey has performed annual recital tours since 2002 funded by the National Endowment for the Arts' _Challenge America Grant_ and the Northeast Louisiana Arts Council where Corey serves as Visiting Artist and member of the organization's resident touring ensembles.   
  
In addition to performing, Corey has experience teaching on the collegiate level. He completed a two-year assignment as the Biedenharn Endowed Chair in Music at the University of Louisiana where he was Director of Opera Workshop, taught private voice, vocal pedagogy and the history of opera. Corey was also Chair of Music Theatre at Mahidol University in Bangkok, Thailand for two years and for four years, an Associate Professor of Theatre/Coordinator of Musical Theatre at Northwestern State University in Nachitoches, Louisiana. Currently, Corey is an Assistant Professor of Voice and Theory at Northwest Florida State College and Coordinator of Mississippi Opera's annual John Alexander National Vocal Competition.  
  
Corey's academic degrees include the Doctor of Musical Arts degree from the University of North Texas, the Master of Music degree from the University of Houston and the Bachelor of Music degree from Louisiana State University. He has been an apprentice with Lake George Opera, Central City Opera, Des Moines Metro Opera, Amarillo Opera, Shreveport Opera and the Seagle Music Colony. Corey is a current member of the American Guild of Music Artists, Actor’s Equity Association and National Association of Teachers of Singing.