+++
date = "2019-01-28T23:01:27+00:00"
discipline = "Bass-baritone"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1548716324/media/2019/01/Travis%20Color.jpg"
primary_image_credit = ""
related_companies = ["scene/companies/spoleto-festival-usa.md", "scene/companies/washington-national-opera.md", "scene/companies/houston-grand-opera.md", "scene/companies/los-angeles-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-atlanta-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-dallas-opera.md", "scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md", "scene/companies/lyric-opera-of-chicago.md", "scene/companies/opera-theatre-of-st-louis.md", "scene/companies/minnesota-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-santa-fe-opera.md"]
slug = "dale-travis"
social_media = []
title = "Dale Travis"
website = ""

_template = "people_single"
+++
  
Dale Travis has become one of the most sought after bass-baritones in America today. With a repertoire encompassing 50 roles over 25 years in a wide variety of styles from Mozart, Donizetti and Rossini to Strauss, Puccini and Wagner, Mr. Travis has been a frequent guest artist at the most prestigious opera companies in the world, including the Metropolitan Opera, the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the San Francisco Opera, Houston Grand Opera, Washington Opera, Los Angeles, Santa Fe Opera Festival, Opera Colorado, Spoleto Festival USA, the Saito Kinen Music Festival, Teatro Regio in Torino, Teatro Carlo Felice in Genoa, the Berlin Komische Oper, and the New Israeli Opera in Tel Aviv.

In recent seasons Mr. Travis returned to the Lyric Opera of Chicago for _Tosca_ and _The Merry Widow_, Santa Fe Opera for _The Magic Flute_ and _Albert Herring_, the San Francisco Opera for _The Marriage of Figaro_ and _The Makropoulos Case_, Teatro dell’ Opera in Rome for A View from the Bridge, Opera Colorado for _La Cenerentola_, St. Louis for _Daughter of the Regiment_ and the _Makropoulos Case_ at the Metropolitan Opera. Other engagements within the past few years include a return to the Santa Fe Opera for _Tosca_, _Arabella_, and _La Traviata_, _La Boheme_ for the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the sacristan in _Tosca_ for San Francisco Opera, and _The Mikado_ in Kansas City. In the summer of 2013 he returned to Santa Fe Opera for _Le Nozze di Figaro_, _Traviata_, and _Grand Duchess_, and then performed _Arabella_ with Minnesota Opera, _Tosca_ with Austin Lyric Opera, and returned to San Francisco.

The 2015-16 season included the Musicmaster in _Ariadne_ with Minnesota Opera, Sacristan in _Tosca_ with Dallas Opera, Frank in _Die Fledermaus_ with the Saito Kinen Festival and _La Gazza Ladra_ and _La Boheme_ both with the Glimmerglass Festival. Recent engagements include _Boheme_ Benoit/Alidoro and Dr. Kolenaty in _Vec Makropolus_ in San Francisco, _La Traviata_ with Dallas Opera, and Bartolo in _The Barber of Seville_ with Kentucky Opera, the role of Sacristan in _Tosca_ with Michigan Opera Theatre, and Frank in _die Fledermaus_ with the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy. This past summer he returned to Glimmerglass Opera for _The Barber of Seville_, _West Side Story_, and _Silent Night_. Future engagements include the Dallas Opera and San Francisco Opera for Sacristan in _Tosca,_ Frank in _Fledermaus_ at the Saito Kinen Festival, a return to Minnesota Opera for Nino Rota’s _The Straw Hat,_ and a return to Santa Fe Opera as Don Alfonso in _Cosi fan Tutte._ Next season he also debuts Atlanta as Dom Magnifico in _La Cenerentola._

A versatile artist, Mr. Travis is recognized as one of the premiere basso buffo artists of the day, stemming from his studying and working with three of the greatest artists of the 20th century in that repertoire: Italo Tajo, Paolo Montarsolo and Renato Capecchi. His performances as Bartolo, Dulcamara, Don Pasquale, Don Magnifico, Don Alfonso, Geronte, and Leporello have been described as brilliant, definitive and utterly entertaining. His work in dramatic and contemporary repertoire is widely praised as well with wonderfully detailed portrayals in the works of Britten, Berg, Poulenc, Weill, Stravinsky and Janacek. Mr. Travis can be heard on EMI Classics with the Metrpolitan Opera’s Manon Lescaut HD DVD, the EMI Classic CD of Die Burgschaft at the Spoleto Festival USA, Albany Records CD of Todd Machover’s _Resurrection_ with the Houston Grand Opera and on London Records in Capriccio with the San Francisco Opera.