---
date: "2015-05-14T14:50:00-04:00"
discipline: Soprano
lastmod: "2015-05-14T14:54:00-04:00"
primary_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1546184809/media/2018/12/Eva2-pc-FazilBerisha.jpg
primary_image_credit: Fazil Berisha.
publishDate: "2015-05-14T14:54:00-04:00"
related_companies:
- scene/companies/royal-opera-house.md
- scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md
- scene/companies/deutsche-oper-berlin.md
- scene/companies/bayerische-staatsoper.md
- scene/companies/opra-national-de-paris.md
- scene/companies/staatsoper-berlin.md
- scene/companies/teatro-alla-scala.md
slug: eva-maria-westbroek
social_media:
- _template: people_single
  platform: Facebook
  template: social-media
  url: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Eva-Maria-Westbroek/57725737250?fref=ts
title: Eva-Maria Westbroek
website: http://www.evamariawestbroek.com/#%21HOME%7CmainPage
---
Eva Maria Westbroek is one of the most acclaimed and widely-recognized classical singers in the world today. She has appeared at the great opera houses and festivals of the world, such as the Royal Opera House – Covent Garden, Opera National de Paris, Metropolitan Opera, Wiener Staatsoper, Deutsche Oper Berlin, Teatro alla Scala in Milan, Semperoper Dresden and Bavarian State Opera in Munich, as well as at the Bayreuth Festival, Salzburg Festival, and the Aix en Provence Festival. Westbroek commands a very wide repertoire of many different periods and styles, including such roles as Sieglinde in **_Die Walküre_**, Katerina in **_Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_**, Minnie in **_La Fanciulla del West_**, Maddalena in **_Andrea Chénier_** and the title roles in **_Francesca da Rimini_**_,_ **_Jenufa_**, **_Manon Lescaut_**, and **_Katya Kabanova_**. She also starred in the sensationally received world premiere of Wayne Turnage’s opera **_Anne Nicole_** at Covent Garden. Westbroek’s most recent role debuts have been Marie in **_Wozzeck_** at the Dutch National Opera in Amsterdam and Isolde in **_Tristan und Isolde_**, first at the Semperoper Dresden and then in Baden-Baden.

Eva Maria Westbroek began the 2017/2018 season as Leonora in the Dutch National Opera’s new production of **_La Forza del Destino_**, directed by Christoph Loy and conducted by Michele Mariotti. She then returned to the Bavarian State Opera as Giorgetta in a new production of **_Il Tabarro_** from Puccini’s **_Il Trittico_**, conducted by Kyril Petrenko. Westbroek also appeared as Santuzza in **_Cavalleria Rusticana_** at the Theatre Royale de la Monnaie in Brussels and as Katerina in **_Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_**at Covent Garden. Invited as an Artist in Residence by the Concertgebeouw Orchestra, she sings three separate programs and participates in chamber concerts with the orchestra during the course of the season. In the summer of 2018, the artist will debut with the Western Australian Symphony in a concert performance of **_Tristan und Isolde_**, after which she will appear with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra as Sieglinde in a concert performance of Act 1 of **_Die Walküre_**.

In the 2016/2017 season, Eva Maria Westbroek returned to the Dutch National Opera for two roles: the title role in **_Manon Lescaut_** and then for her debut as Marie in **_Wozzeck_**. She appeared at the Vienna State Opera as Minnie in **_La Fanciulla del West_**and Katerina in **_Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_**, at the Staatsoper Berlin in the title role of **_Katya Kabanova_**, and at the Deutsche Oper Berlin as Sieglinde in **_Die Walküre_**. In July of 2017, she returned to the Bavarian State opera as **_Jenufa_** at the Munich Opera Festival. Highlights of the Westbroek included  Elisabeth in performances of **_Tannhauser_** at the Metropolitan Opera, under James Levine. She then returned to star as Santuzza in the Royal Opera House’s new production of **_Cavalleria Rusticana_**, conducted by Sir Antonio Pappano, and to the Opera de Monte Carlo for her first stage performances of Catalani’s infrequently performed masterpiece, **_La Wally_**. Westbroek also sang Isolde in a new production of **_Tristan und Isolde_** at the Festspielhaus Baden Baden with Sir Simon Rattle and the Berlin Philharmonic. In June of 2016, she starred in two concerts celebrating the 50thAnniversary Jubilee of the Dutch National Opera, and performed the final scene of **_Salome_** for the first time in her career. In August of 2016, Westbroek made her debut at the Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires in the title role of Puccini’s **_Tosca_**.

Eva Maria Westbroek studied at the Royal Conservatory of the Hague and then pursued her vocal studies with the legendary soprano Iris Adami Corradetti and famed American tenor James McCray. She made her professional debut in the title role of **_Tosca_** at Teatro Manzoni at the age of 25. Among the most important experiences of the first years of her career were her performances as Elisabeth in **_Don Carlos_** and Chrysothemis in **_Elektra_** at the Komische Oper in Berlin. She subsequently became a member of the Stuttgart Opera, where she developed a very varied repertoire of roles, including Donna Anna in **_Don Giovanni_**, Adalgisa in **_Norma_**, Desdemona in **_Otello_**, the title role in **_Jenufa_**, Emilia Marty in **_The Makrapoulos Case_**, and Marie in **_The Bartered Bride_**, as well as **_Tosca_**. Westbroek also starred as Carlotta in the internationally acclaimed production of Franz Schrecker’s **_Die Gezeichneten_**, and she has been honored by the Stuttgart Opera with the title of Kammersaengerin.

In 2006, Eva Maria Westbroek made a triumphant debut at the Netherlands Opera as Katerina in **_Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_**, followed by her debut at Covent Garden in the same role. Since her debut at the Royal Opera House – Covent Garden, Westbroek has returned to the theater as Sieglinde in **_Die Walküre_**, Minnie in **_La Fanciulla del West_** and in five new productions: **_Tannhauser_**, **_Andrea Chenier_**, **_Cavalleria Rusticana_**, **_Les Troyens_**, and the world Premiere of **_Anne Nicole_**.

Westbroek sang her first Sieglinde in **_Die Walküre _**at the Aix en Provence Festival under Simon Rattle and the Berlin Philharmonic. She has become especially identified with this role, with which she then made her debuts at the Bayreuth Festival, San Francisco Opera and Metropolitan Opera. She has also sung Sieglinde in London, Frankfurt, Valencia and in many concert performances, including the Bayreuth Festival’s Special Concert commemorating the 200th anniversary of the birth of Richard Wagner. Westbroek made her debut at the Paris Opera as Mme Lidoine in **_Dialogues des Carmelites _**and returned there as Chrysothemis in **_Elektra_**, Elisabeth in **_Tannhauser_**, Katerina in **_Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_**, and for her first performances of the Kaiserin in **_Die Frau ohne Schatten_**. She made her debut at the Vienna State Opera as Leonora in **_La Forza del Destino_** and also appeared in this role at the Theatre Royale de la Monnaie in Brussels. Her debut at the Bavarian State Opera was as Chrysothemis in **_Elektra_**, a role she also performed at the Salzburg Festival. Westbroek also appeared in the new production of **_Jenufa_** and in the title role of **_Ariadne auf Naxos_** in Munich.

Eva Maria Westbroek has added many new roles to her repertoire in recent seasons. She sang the title role in **_Francesca da Rimini_** at the Metropolitan Opera and in Monte Carlo, where she also starred in **_La Wally_**. She sang her first performances of Puccini’s **_Manon Lescaut_** at the Theatre Royale de La Monnaie in Brussels, followed by a production in Baden Baden. Westbroek sang her first staged performances of **_Tristan und Isolde _**at the Semperoper Dresden in 2014 and debuted the title role in **_Katya Kabanova _**at the Berlin State Opera in 2015. Westbroek also starred as Didon in the new production of **_Les Troyens_** at the Royal Opera House – Covent Garden, having previously been heard as Cassandre in the same work in Amsterdam. Other recent highlights have included **_Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_** at the Metropolitan Opera and **_Die Walküre_** under Sir Simon Rattle at the Deutsche Oper Berlin.

Westbroek frequently appears in concerts all over the world and has been privileged to collaborate with the most eminent conductors of our day, such as Anthony Pappano, Simon Rattle, James Levine, Bernhard Haitink, Edo de Waart, Maris Jansons, Valery Gergiev, Lothar Zagrosek, Christoph von Dohnányi, Christian Thielemann, Carlo Rizzi, Fabio Luisi, and the late Lorin Maazel. She has worked with such notable directors as Christoph Loy, Krzysztof Warlikovsky, David McVicar, Martin Kusej, Barbara Frey, Niklaus Lehnhoff, Guy Joosten, Francesca Zambello, David Pountney, Vera Nemirova, Richard Jones, Keith Warner, Christoph Loy, Robert Carsen, Andrea Breth and Richard Eyre.

A laureate at the Angelica Catalani Concours and the Santa Maria Ligure Concours, Eva Maria Westrboek’s honors and awards include the Dutch VSCD Classical Music first prize for ‘Most Impressive Individual Artistic Achievement’. Since the spring of 2014, Westbroek has felt especially honored and privileged to be an ambassador for Musicians Without Borders.