+++
date = "2017-09-29T18:55:00-04:00"
discipline = "Mezzo-soprano"
lastmod = "2017-09-29T18:55:00-04:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1506725536906/2017-09-29---Larmore-Jennifer-67.jpg.jpg"
publishDate = "2017-09-29T18:55:00-04:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/the-atlanta-opera.md","scene/companies/royal-opera-house.md","scene/companies/opra-national-de-paris.md","scene/companies/deutsche-oper-berlin.md"]
slug = "jennifer-larmore"
title = "Jennifer Larmore"
website = "https://www.jenniferlarmore.net/"
_template = "people_single"
+++

Jennifer Larmore is an American mezzo-soprano, with a wide-ranging repertoire, having begun with the coloratura roles of the Baroque and bel canto then adding  music from the  Romantic and Contemporary periods.  
 
She began her career at Opera de Nice in 1986 with Mozart's *La Clemenza di Tito* and went on to sing at virtually every major opera house in the world, including the Metropolitan Opera, La Scala, Paris Opera, Tokyo, Berlin Deutsche Oper, and London Covent Garden.
 
She is a two-time Grammy Award winner who has recorded widely for the Teldec, RCA, Harmonia Mundi, Deutsche Grammophon, Arabesque, Opera Rara, Bayer, Naive, Chandos, VAI and Cedille labels in over one hundred CDs to date as well as DVDs of “Countess Geschwitz” in *Lulu*, "Jennifer Larmore in Performance" for VAI, *Il Barbiere di Siviglia* (Netherlands Opera), *L'Italiana in Algeri* (Opera de Paris), *La Belle Hélène* (Hamburg State Opera), *Orlando Furioso* (Opera de Paris) and *Jenufa* (Deutsche Oper Berlin). She has recorded two charming books on tape by Kim Maerkl entitled *Mozart's Magical Night* with Hélène Grimaud and the Bavarian State Orchestra and *The King’s Daughter* with story and music for flute and string orchestra by Kim Maerkl with the flute player Natalie Schwaabe.
 
With her frequent collaborator Antoine Palloc, she has made many International recital tours, including appearances in Amsterdam, Paris, Madrid, Hong Kong, Seoul, Tokyo, Vietnam, Vienna, London, San Juan, Prague, Melbourne, Brussels, Berlin, Rio de Janeiro, Lisbon, Sao Paolo, Athens and Copenhagen, as well as all the major American venues. Symphonic repertoire plays a large role in this mezzo’s career with the works of Mahler, Schoenberg, Mozart, de Falla, Debussy, Berlioz and Barber featuring prominently. Miss Larmore has enjoyed great collaborations with world orchestras under the direction of Muti, Lopez-Cobos, Bernstein, Runnicles, Sinopoli, Masur, von Dochnanyi, Jacobs, Mackerras, Spinosi, Abbado, Barenboim, Bonynge, Maazel, Osawa, Guidarini and Hengelbrock. 
 
Jennifer’s repertoire has expanded to include new roles such as "Marie" in Berg's masterpiece *Wozzeck*, which she recently sang to great success at the Grand Théâtre de Genève. Berg is now a specialty of Miss Larmore with her having sung “Countess Geschwitz” in Berg's *Lulu* at Covent Garden in the Christof Loy production with Tony Pappano, then again in Madrid. At Paris Opera Bastille she sang in the Willy Decker production and she reprised the role yet again in a new production of William Kentridge with Lothar Zagrosek conducting for the Nederlandse Opera, and at the Rome Opera. She has also become well known for "Kostelnička Buryjovka" in Janacek's *Jenůfa* which she performed with Donald Runnicles at Berlin Deutsche Oper. The DVD of this production was nominated for a Grammy. She reprised her "Kostelnička" in this same production for the New National Theater in Tokyo.  “Lady Macbeth” in Verdi’s opera *Macbeth* is a role she debuted in a striking new production of Christoph Loy at the Grand Théâtre de Genève, then in the Bob Wilson production in Bologna and Reggio Emilia. Her first “Eboli” was in the French version of *Don Carlos* at the Caramoor Music Festival in New York, with Will Crutchfield conducting, and she sang “Jocasta” in Stravinsky’s *Oedipus Rex* at the Bard Festival. Adding to her growing list of new repertoire, Miss Larmore debuted the role of  "Mère Marie" in *Les dialogues des carmélites* at the Caramoor Festival, New York. She went back to her roots with "Ottavia" in Monteverdi's *l'Incoronazione di Poppea* at the Theater an der Wien in October 2015 and returned there in December 2016 for her debut in the role of "Elvira" in Mozart's *Don Giovanni*.
 
Miss Larmore, in collaboration with the double bass player Davide Vittone, has created an ensemble called Jennifer Larmore and OpusFive. This a string quintet offering programs that are entertaining and varied with Songs and Arias, Cabaret/Operetta and Movies and Broadway. They have given concerts in Seville, Pamplona, Valencia, Las Palmas, Venice, Amiens, Olten, Aix en Provence, Dublin, and Paris.

Throughout her career Jennifer Larmore has garnered awards and recognition. In 1994 Jennifer won the prestigious Richard Tucker Award. In 1996 she sang the Olympic Hymn at the Closing Ceremonies of the Olympics in Atlanta. In 2002, “Madame” Larmore was awarded the Chevalier des arts et des lettres from the French government in recognition of her contributions to the world of music. In 2010 she was inducted into the Georgia Music Hall of Fame in her home state of Georgia.  In addition, to her many activities, travels, performances and causes, author Jennifer Larmore is working on books that will bring a wider public to the love of opera. Her new book "Una Voce" is available at Barnes & Noble, Amazon, and Lulu.com and explores the world and psychology of the performer. web site: jlarmorebook.com
 
The 2017-18 season will see Jennifer debut "Anna 1" in Kurt Weill's *The Seven Deadly Sins* for the Atlanta Opera, then returnto Hamburg State Opera for a reprisal of *La Belle Hélène*. She then travels to Cologne for a production of *Il Matrimonio Segreto*. Other engagements will include a concert called “An American in Paris” with Orchestre de Cannes and Benjamin Levy, concerts in Grenoble, Olten and Mageve with OpusFive, a revival of the Christof Loy production of *The Merry Widow* in Genève as well as master classes in Europe and the United States.
