+++
discipline = "Tenor"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1572812932/media/2019/11/KeithJamesonFullRes-7_uqz4ua.jpg"
primary_image_credit = ""
related_companies = ["scene/companies/opera-saratoga.md", "scene/companies/washington-national-opera.md", "scene/companies/seattle-opera.md", "scene/companies/arizona-opera.md", "scene/companies/los-angeles-opera.md", "scene/companies/lyric-opera-of-chicago.md", "scene/companies/the-atlanta-opera.md", "scene/companies/glimmerglass-festival.md", "scene/companies/the-santa-fe-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-dallas-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md", "scene/companies/houston-grand-opera.md"]
slug = "keith-jameson"
social_media = []
title = "Keith Jameson"
website = "http://keithjameson.org/"

+++
Keith Jameson, tenor, a native of South Carolina, returned to The Metropolitan Opera as Bardolfo in _Falstaff_ during the 2018-19 season. He recently made his San Francisco Opera debut as Uncle Billy in _It’s A Wonderful Life_ (Heggie/Scheer), and sang JB Williams in the world premier of the one-man opera _Why Is Eartha Kitt Trying to Kill Me?: A Love Story_ (Smith/Johnston) with Urban Arias in Washington, DC. He made his Opera di Roma debut in 2018 as the Novice in the acclaimed Deborah Warner production of _Billy Budd_.

He returned to Lyric Opera of Chicago for Pong in _Turandot;_ and as Gherardo in _Gianni Schicchi_ and the Tea Pot/Little Old Man/Frog in _L’Enfant et les Sortileges_ in Tokyo and Kyoto with the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy (Ongaku-Juku). He debuted in 2017 at the Teatro Massimo in Palermo, Sicily as Flute/Thisbe in _A Midsummer Night’s Dream_. During the 2016-17 season, he sang Sancho Panza in _Man of La Mancha_ at Utah Opera and Triquet in _Eugene Onegin_ at Lyric Opera of Chicago. He sang Ali in _Zemire et Azor_ and Harry Druggist in _The Cradle Will Rock_ (Live cd recording) with Opera Saratoga. He was seen at the Hollywood Bowl as Spoletta in _Tosca_ with the Los Angeles Philharmonic and Maestro Gustavo Dudamel, and as the tenor soloist in Beethoven’s _Symphony No. 9_ with Brevard Music Center and Maestro Keith Lockhart. Keith also debuted in with Washington National Opera at the Kennedy Center singing Basilio in _Le nozze di Figaro_.

He began the 2015-2016 season at Lyric Opera of Chicago, as Basilio in a new production of _Le nozze di Figaro._ He also returned to The Dallas Opera and sang Yab the Elf in the world premier of _Becoming Santa Claus_ by Mark Adamo. He made his debut with Houston Grand Opera in _Le nozze di Figaro_ and as the Gamekeeper in _Rusalka_, and with Pittsburgh Opera as Sellem in _The Rake’s Progress_. Keith also returned to Los Angeles Opera as Goro in _Madama Butterfly._

He sang the title role of _Candide_ with Opera di Firenze, Maggio Musicale Fiorentino (production by Francesco Micheli, conducted by John Axelrod) in 2015, and with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra (production by Garnett Bruce, conducted by Marin Alsop). Keith made his debut with Central City Opera as Sancho Panza in _Man of La Mancha_. He performed Alméric in Tchaikovsky’s _Iolanta_ (seen “Live from the Met Opera” in HD in movie theaters worldwide), and Remendado in _Carmen_ at the Metropolitan Opera. Keith sang Bardolfo in _Falstaff_ at the Saito Kinen Festival in Matsumoto, Japan, conducted by Fabio Luisi, and he debuted with the Orquestra Sinfônica do Estado de São Paulo, Brasil, as _Candide_, conducted by Marin Alsop. Keith created the role of Henry Snibblesworth in the world premier of _The Classical Style: An Opera (of sorts)_ by Steven Stucky and Jeremy Denk at the Ojai Music Festival, CA, and in Berkeley, CA, and at Zankel Hall in NYC. He returned to Los Angeles Opera for the Novice in _Billy Budd_, and returned to Lyric Opera of Chicago as Monsieur Taupe in _Capriccio_, and made his debut with Seattle Opera as the Four Servants in Offenbach’s _Les Contes d’Hoffmann_. He sang Bardolfo in Robert Carsen’s new production of _Falstaff_ at the Metropolitan Opera, conducted by James Levine, and seen “Live from The Met in HD” movie theaters around the world. Keith also sang a workshop of a new one-man opera entitled _Why Is Eartha Kitt Trying to Kill Me?_ by Jeffrey Dennis Smith and David Johnston at le Poisson Rouge in NYC, as part of the Opera America New Works Forum, and presented by American Lyric Theatre.

Keith has sung the Novice in _Billy Budd_ at the Metropolitan Opera, and Osman in Handel’s _Almira_ with NYC’s operamission in the North American premiere staging of the entire opera at the historic Gershwin Hotel. He performed Sancho Panza with Greenwood Community Theatre in his hometown of Greenwood, SC in June 2012. He sang Grandpa Joe in _The Golden Ticket_ with Atlanta Opera, which was released on CD in 2012. During the 2011-2012 season, he was the tenor soloist in Haydn’s _The Creation_ with Boston Baroque and as Nicolas in Britten’s _Saint Nicolas_ with the Greenville Chorale in SC, and made his debut with Arizona Opera as Goro in _Madama Butterfly_. During 2010-2011, he was heard as the Simpleton in _Boris Godunov_ with Dallas Opera, Sky Masterson in _Guys and Dolls_ with the Greenwood Community Theatre and as Triquet in _Eugene Onegin_ with Los Angeles Opera. In the summer of 2011, he debuted with the New York Philharmonic as the Mosquito and Schoolmaster in the critically acclaimed production of _The Cunning Little Vixen_.

During the 2010 season, Keith sang Remendado in Bizet’s _Carmen_ during the “Live from the Metropolitan Opera” HD Broadcast in movie theaters worldwide, which was subsequently released on DVD. He had previously sung Gherardo in _Gianni Schicchi_ at the Met, and made his debut there in 2007’s _War and Peace_. He sang Flute/Thisbe in _A Midsummer Night’s Dream_ with Lyric Opera of Chicago, Azor in André Grétry’s _Beauty and the Beast_ with the Greenwood Music Festival (SC premiere), Goro in _Madama Butterfly_ and Clarìn in the world premiere of Lewis Spratlan’s _Life is a Dream_ with The Santa Fe Opera, as well as covering the title role of _Albert Herring_. During the previous season, he sang Goro in the acclaimed Robert Wilson production with LA Opera, and sang Beppe in _I Pagliacci_ with Lyric Opera of Chicago. He also debuted with Opera Boston as Vašek in _The Bartered Bride_, and as Don Curzio in _Le nozze di Figaro_ with Dallas Opera.

He made his debut at the English National Opera in London as Nanki-Poo in Jonathan Miller’s production of _The Mikado_, and his debut with Opera Royal de Wallonie in Liege, Belgium as Peter Quint in _The Turn of the Screw_. He debuted at Lyric Opera of Chicago as Triquet in _Eugene Onegin_, and returned there recently for his role debut as Basilio in _Le nozze di Figaro._ He has sung the role of _Candide_ at New York City Opera, joined by a cast that included Anna Christy as Cunegonde, John Cullum (TV’s _Northern Exposure_) as Pangloss, and Judy Kaye (Broadway’s _Mamma Mia_ and _Souvenir!_) as the Old Lady. He performed 14 roles with NYCO over six consecutive years, including Oronte in Handel’s _Alcina_ (production by Francesca Zambello), Nanki-Poo in _The Mikado_ (production by Jonathan Miller), Tobias Ragg in _Sweeney Todd_ (production by Hal Prince), Attalo in Rossini’s _Ermione_, Goro in _Madama Butterfly_ (in New York, and in Tokyo and Nagoya on the 2005 NYCO Japan Tour),Gastone in _La Traviata_, Ugone in Handel’s _Flavio_, Anfinomo in Monteverdi’s _Il Ritorno d’Ulisse in Patria_, Count Albert in _Die tote Stadt_, Spoletta in _Tosca_, Remendado in _Carmen_, and Monostatos in _The Magic Flute_.

With The Santa Fe Opera, he has sung the roles of The Novice in _Billy Budd_, Bardolfo in _Falstaff_, Bob Boles in _Peter Grimes_, John Withers in Paul Moravec’s _The Letter_ (world premiere), the Dean of the Faculty in _Cendrillon_, Remendado, and Scaramuccio in _Ariadne auf Naxos._ He sang Pong in _Turandot_ with The Santa Fe Opera, Ft. Worth Opera Festival and Atlanta Opera. He sang Valletto in _L’Incoranazione di Poppea_ and Pietro in the North American premiere of Schreker’s _Die Gezeichneten_ with LA Opera. He performed Pedrillo in _The Abduction from the Seraglio_ and Flavio in _Norma_ with Opera Memphis; Goro, Monostatos, and Little Bat in _Susannah_ with Indianapolis Opera, Beppe at the Bardavon Opera House in Poughkeepsie, NY, Almaviva in _The Barber of Seville_ with South Carolina’s Newberry Opera, and Acis in _Acis and Galatea_ with New York’s Fiammetta Ensemble. He sang Tamino in _The Magic Flute_ with Utah Festival Opera, and performed Monostatos with Madison Opera. He sang the Lecturer in Argento’s _A Water Bird Talk_ with Musica Nova in Rochester, NY.

A gifted interpreter of Gilbert & Sullivan, he has performed Nanki-Poo, Frederic in _The Pirates of Penzance_, Hilarion in _Princess Ida_, and Fairfax in _The Yeomen of the Guard_, all with the New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players, in New York’s Symphony Space and City Center, Wolf Trap’s Filene Center, and Lake Placid’s Performing Arts Center. He also sang Ralph in _H.M.S. Pinafore_ with Chattanooga Opera.

He performed the roles of Bretschneider and Army Chaplain in Kurka’s _The Good Soldier Schweik_ at Glimmerglass Opera in 2003, and also toured with the Glimmerglass Opera Young Artists in Torke’s _Strawberry Fields_, as part of _Central Park_, in 2000. He toured with The Santa Fe Opera Young Artist Program singing Rafael and Perico in Serrano’s _La Dolorosa_ in 1998.

He made his Carnegie Hall debut in 2004 as tenor soloist in Beethoven’s _Mass in C_ and Schubert’s _Mass in G_ with Mid-America Productions, and returned in 2005 to sing the tenor soloist in Mozart’s Coronation Mass. He was the tenor soloist in Handel’s _Messiah_ with Boston Baroque (2004, 2005, 2008, 2010, and 2011) and the Phoenix Symphony (1999 and 2000), and in Bach’s _B-minor Mass_ with the Berkshire Bach Society at Ozawa Hall at Tanglewood in 2004. He was tenor soloist in Britten’s _Saint Nicolas_, Mozart’s _Requiem_ and _Coronation Mass_ with the Greenville Chorale in South Carolina. He has also sung with the Carmel Bach Festival as a Virginia Best Adams Voice Fellow, the Brevard Music Center, Opera Theatre of Rochester, NY, Currents in Richmond, VA, and the Youngstown Symphony Orchestra, OH.

He was a 1999 award recipient of the prestigious Sullivan Foundation, and a winner of the Anna MacKay Scholarship from The Santa Fe Opera. He received his Bachelor of Music in Vocal Performance from Furman University, and his Master of Music in Conducting and his Doctorate of Musical Arts in Vocal Performance and Literature, both from the Eastman School of Music.

He was also the Founder and Director of the Greenwood Music Festival in Greenwood, SC, 2007-2011. There he sang Michael in a staged production of the musical _I Do! I Do!_ The weekend music festival featured a staged production of an opera or musical, chamber music concerts, recitals, classic films, and a sacred music concert and/or cabaret evenings, in addition to commissioned artwork from local artists. The Festival sponsored a “Cabaret Evening” fund-raiser, and in the fall of 2010 presented the world premiere of the children’s opera _Mooch the Messy_ by Marcus DeLoach (Keith sang the role of Mooch and Marcus was Mooch’s Father), in celebration of the Grand Opening of the new Greenwood County Library. The Greenwood Music Festival’s final season, it’s fifth anniversary season in May, 2011, had the theme “Roman Holiday”, and featured Broadway star baritone Nat Chandler, soprano Siân Davies, Ensemble Radieuse, Emerald Brass, Atlanta’s Peachtree Symphonic Winds, and showings of _Roman Holiday_ and _Spartacus_.

Keith is the composer of the children’s opera _Petunia_, based on the book by Roger Duvoisin. It was premiered by FBN Productions’ Opera for Kids! in Aiken, SC, in January 2014, and toured across SC, NC, and GA, where it was seen by over 11,000 children and adults. _Petunia_ was featured in FBN’s 2015 Tour. He is now completing a Christmas-themed “community” opera, and another children’s opera, in addition to chamber works. His _Uptown Market Fanfare and Serenade_, written for the GreenWood Winds, Emerald Brass and timpani, premiered at the Grand Opening of the Uptown Market in Greenwood, SC, in April, 2016.

He can be heard on the recordings of Haydn’s _The Creation_ and _Lord Nelson Mass_, both with Boston Baroque, on the _Opera America Songbook_ on a song by Conrad Cummings, and on the _Five Borough Songbook_. Keith can also be seen on the dvds of _Carmen_ (production by Richard Eyre, conducted by Yannick Nézet-Séguin), _Falstaff_ (production by Robert Carsen, conducted by James Levine), both from the Metropolitan Opera, and the world premiere of _Becoming Santa Claus_ by Mark Adamo (production by Paul Curran, conducted by Emmanuel Villaume) produced by The Dallas Opera. Keith can be heard as Grandpa Joe in the recording of _The Golden Ticket_ by Peter Ash, produced by the Atlanta Opera.

His upcoming engagements include his return to Japan for Triquet in _Eugene Onegin_ at the Sejii Ozawa Matsumoto Festival, and four roles in Handel’s _Saul_ with Houston Grand Opera. He also sings Basilio in _Le nozze di Figaro_ with The Metropolitan Opera in 2020 and returns to Houston as the First Jew in _Salome_. In addition to his upcoming opera performances, Keith will record his first solo cd featuring new song cycles by Conrad Cummings, Peter Ash, Glen Roven, and Sayo Kosugi in the fall of 2019. Keith lives in New York City.