---
discipline: Soprano
primary_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1608595915/media/2020/12/p_3_jsneop.jpg
primary_image_credit: ""
related_companies:
- scene/companies/berkshire-opera-festival.md
slug: laura-strickling
social_media:
- platform: Facebook
  template: social-media
  url: https://www.facebook.com/LauraStricklingSoprano
- _template: people_single
  platform: Twitter
  template: social-media
  url: https://twitter.com/LauraStrickling
title: Laura Strickling
website: https://www.laurastrickling.com/
cms_visible: true
---
Laura Strickling has been recognized by The New York Times for her, “flexible voice, crystalline diction, and warm presence.” Celebrated for her work performing and promoting art song, with an emphasis on new additions to the canon, she curated The New Music Shelf Anthology for Soprano and has collaborated with numerous composers including Tom Cipullo, Juliana Hall, Libby Larsen, James Matheson, John Musto, and Glen Roven. She is on the roster of the Brooklyn Art Song Society, and has appeared with Cincinnati Song Initiative, Mexicoliederfest, Calliope’s Call, Liederfest in Suzhou (China), the Afghanistan National Institute of Music, Lyric Fest, Joy in Singing, Trinity Concerts at One, the American Liszt Society, Baltimore Lieder Weekend, the Half Moon Music Festival, Concerts on the Slope, National Sawdust, Art Song at the Old Stone House, the Brooklyn New Music Collective, SongFusion, was a featured performer at the 2016 New Music Gathering, and presented a radio broadcast recital of American songs on “Live from WFMT” in Chicago with pianist Daniel Schlosberg. Laura and pianist Liza Stepanova were Artists in Residence at the Yellow Barn Music Festival, where they presented a program of Granados and modern songs in Spanish, including the world-premiere of _Ciudades del Porvenir_ by Reinaldo Moya. She has presented guest artist recitals and lectures at the University of Georgia, Mercer University, College of William and Mary, Mercer University, University of Notre Dame, New World School of the Arts, Notre Dame University of Maryland, Pittsburg State University, McDaniel College, St. Mary’s College, and University of Richmond. She is on the New Music Advisory Board of the Brooklyn Art Song Society, and the Advisory Board of Cincinnati Song Initiative.

Equally acclaimed for her work on the concert stage, she has appeared at Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, the Kennedy Center, National Sawdust, Trinity Church on Wall Street, Washington National Cathedral, and the Opera America Center. Her, “powerful and expressive voice across a large range, her variety of timbre and character,” (Classical Scene), make her a welcome guest soloist for a range of oratorio and concert works, from Handel to Britten. These include _Messiah_ with the Indianapolis Symphony and the Richmond Symphony, _Gloria_ (Poulenc) with the Asheville Symphony, _Exsultate jubilate_ (Mozart) with the Cathedral Choral Society, Mass in c minor (Mozart) with the Richmond Symphony, Cathedral Choral Society, and Berkshire Choral International, _Stabat Mater_ (Dvorak) and _Elijah_ (Mendelssohn) with Berkshire Choral International, _Ein Deutsches Requiem_ (Brahms) with the Bel Canto Chorus of Milwaukee and Chorosynthesis, Luonnotar (Sibelius) and _Les Illuminations_ (Britten) with the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra, Knoxville: Summer of 1915 (Barber) and _Les Illuminations_ (Britten) with Mexicoliederfest,  Ninth Symphony (Beethoven) and _Carmina Burana_ (Orff) with Choralis, as well as Requiem (Mozart), _Credo Mass_ (Mozart), _Dixit Dominus_ (Handel), Gloria (Vivaldi), Lord Nelson Mass (Haydn), and Mass in C (Beethoven). Her performance of Mozart’s Mass in C minor and _Exsultate jubilate_ with the Cathedral Choral Society was broadcast by WETA, and her performance of Poulenc’s _Gloria_ with the Asheville Symphony was broadcast by Blue Ridge Public Radio.

On the opera stage, Ms. Strickling created the role of Fanni Radnòti in the World Premiere of Tom Cipullo’s opera _The Parting_ with Music of Remembrance in Seattle and San Francisco. An alumna of the Berkshire Opera Company resident artist program, Opera News praised her performance of the Dew Fairy in Humperdinck’s _Hansel and Gretel_, "Laura Strickling offered the creamy, clear, younger-sister-of-Eva-Pogner instrument ideal for singing the role over full orchestration."  She appeared as Pamina in the Metropolitan Opera Guild's touring outreach production of _The Magic Flute_. Ms. Strickling’s operatic roles also include Countess Almaviva (_Le nozze di Figaro_), Cleopatra (_Julius Caesar_), Mimi (_La boheme_), Dinorah (_Dinorah_), Elvira (_L’Italiana in Algeri_), Josephine (_H.M.S. Pinafore_), Gretel (_Hansel and Gretel_), and Micaëla (_Carmen_). She created the role of Muriel in the world premiere of Thomas Benjamin's _The Alien Corn_ with the Peabody Opera Theater.

She received critical acclaim in the Naxos Opera Classics recording of _The Parting_ by Tom Cipullo (co-starring baritone Michael Mayes and mezzo-soprano Catherine Cook) for her, “…deeply expressive, secure voice. Her exposed highs are managed wonderfully, with notable beauty.” James Matheson’s _Times Alone_ on Yarlung Records was hailed by MusicWeb International for, “shapely, nuanced voicings and emotional urgency...a striking directness.” Glen Roven’s _The Vineyard Songs_ with pianist Michael Brofman is on New Voices, the Billboard Classical Top-Ten-selling CD.  She can also be heard on New American Song@SongFest, performing Jake Heggie’s _Edna St. Vincent Millay_ with pianist Dimitri Dover, and on The Garden: Songs and Vocal Chamber Music of Tom Cipullo, performing the landmark song cycle _Of a Certain Age_ with pianist Liza Stepanova. Her upcoming recordings include her first solo project of American art song, with pianist Joy Schreier, on the Yarlung label.

A Chicago native, Ms. Strickling is an avid traveler, having lived in Morocco, where she studied classical Arabic at the Arabic Language Institute of Fez, and Kabul, Afghanistan, where her husband was the founding chair of the Department of Law at the American University of Afghanistan. She currently makes her home in St. Thomas, U. S. Virgin Islands.