+++
date = "2017-10-13T21:42:00-04:00"
discipline = "Soprano"
lastmod = "2017-10-13T21:45:00-04:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1507945323405/Malin%20Bystri%CC%82m%203%20-%20foto%20Peter%20Knutson.jpg.jpg"
publishDate = "2017-10-13T21:45:00-04:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/royal-opera-house.md", "scene/companies/salzburg-festival.md", "scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md", "scene/companies/bayerische-staatsoper.md", "scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md", "scene/companies/teatro-alla-scala.md"]
slug = "malin-byström"
title = "Malin Byström"

+++
The Swedish soprano Malin Byström is currently at De National Opera in Amsterdam where she will sing her first *Salome* under the baton of Mo Daniele Gatti with the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra. Malin began the season at the Metropolitan Opera with the role of Donna Elvira, followed by apperances as Donna Anna, in *Don Giovanni*. Last season she sang her first Marschallin in *Der Rosenkavalier* at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm. She also appeared on the same stage as Donna Elvira. Malin Byström made her San Francisco Opera debut last summer with the title role of *Jenůfa*, a role she returned to this spring in Stockholm.

The previous season Malin Byström sung her first Desdemona in *Otello* at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm, followed by Mathilde in Rossini's *Guillaume Tell*, conducted by Antonio Pappano at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden. In 2014, Malin sang Elettra in *Idomeneo* at the Drottningholm Court Theatre, a role she appeared in at the Royal Opera House in London later the same year.

Earlier seasons have included *Arabella* at the Metropolitan Opera, Donna Anna in *Don Giovanni* at the Salzburg Festival and at the Royal Opera House, London, Marguerite in *Faust* at the Met and at the Royal Opera House, Fiordiligi in *Così fan tutte* at Bayerische Staatsoper and the ROH, the title role in *Thaïs* at the Göteborg Opera and at Palau de les Arts in Valencia (opposite Plácido Domingo as Athanaël), Contessa in *Le nozze di Figaro* in Aix-en-Provence and at Grand Théâtre de Genève and Amelia in *Simon Boccanegra* at the Göteborg Opera.

Malin Byström’s earlier engagements have included Hélène in *Les vêpres siciliennes* at Grand Théâtre de Genève with Yves Abel, directed by Christof Loy, Romilda in *Serse* at the Royal Swedish Opera, Fiordiligi with William Christie and Les Arts Florissants in Lyon, Hanna Glawary in *Die lustige Witwe* in Montpellier, Marguerite in Christoph Loy’s acclaimed *Faust* production at the Göteborg Opera and Agathe in *Der Freischütz* in Bregenz. She has sung Donna Anna with René Jacobs in Baden-Baden (released on DVD), in Lepzig, Göteborg and at Concertgebouw in Amsterdam. She has appeared as Amalia in *I Masnadieri* at the ROH, as Musetta in *La Bohème* in Mannheim and at the Bregenz Festival, as title role in Hindemith's *Sancta Susanna* in Montpellier title role of Massenet’s *Manon* and Fiordiligi at Opera North.

On the concert platform Malin Byström has sung Mendelssohn’s *Elias* with Kurt Masur and the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in Rome and Orchestre National de France in Paris, as well as Beethoven’s Symphony No 9 at Teatro alla Scala and in Bonn, and Grieg’s *Peer Gynt* at the Komische Oper. She has appeared as Mathilde in *Guillaume Tell* conducted by Mo Pappano with Orchestra dell’Academia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia and at the BBC Proms in London, concerts which have been released on CD (EMI), She has sung Beethoven’s *Missa Solemnis* with the Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra and Herbert Blomstedt, Strauss’ songs with the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra and Lawrence Renes and Mozart’s C Minor Mass with the Swedish Chamber Orchestra and Nikolaj Znajder. Her appearances under the baton of Eivind Gullberg Jensen have included Kullervo (Orchestre National de France) Mahler’s Symphony no 4 (Orchestre Philharmonique de Montpellier) and *Vier Letzte Lieder* (Orchestre National Bordeaux Aquitaine). She has also sung Vier Letzte Lieder in Stockholm with Ralf Weikert.

Malin Byström studied at the University College of Opera in Stockholm.