+++
date = "2015-10-11T10:29:00-04:00"
discipline = "Mezzo-soprano"
lastmod = "2015-10-11T10:29:00-04:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1444573666618/meagan-zantingh.jpg.jpg"
publishDate = "2015-10-11T10:29:00-04:00"
slug = "meagan-zantingh"
title = "Meagan Zantingh"
website = "http://www.meaganzantingh.com/"
_template = "people_single"
+++

Meagan Zantingh is equally at ease on stage as a recitalist, an early music performer, and an opera singer. One of her recent performances was deemed, “unequivocally beautiful” by the Ottawa Citizen. This season, she enjoyed singing the role of Hyale in Charpentier’s *Actéon* with the Compagnie Baroque Mont Royal, and as a member of the Montreal Symphony choir, she sang under the baton of Zubin Mehta. She also recently sang the title role in Opera da Camera’s production of Handel’s *Xerxes*, and over the past year, she has performed the roles of Dafne in Cavalli’s *Gli amori di Apollo e di Dafne* in Venice, Italy, Dorothée in Massenet’s Cendrillon, and also Athamas in Handel’s *Semele* in Montreal. Also this year, she had the opportunity to premiere a work for solo mezzo-soprano, choir, and Renaissance wind ensemble, written by Canadian-American composer, Christopher Hossfeld with the Cantata Singers of Ottawa.  She also had her solo debut with the Montreal Symphony Orchestra Chamber Choir. This past summer Meagan performed as a soloist in the Gaetano Callido International Organ Festival in Venice.
 
As a founding member of Opera da Camera, she has had regular performances in various venues across Montreal, Quebec, and Ontario for the past four years. With this company, she had the opportunity to sing the role of Cherubino in *Le nozze di Figaro*. Also in Ontario, she has sung and reprised the role of Naomi in Arcady’s production of *Ruth*, by Ron Beckett. A regular interpreter of Bach, Meagan has been a soloist in several Bach cantatas, both with the Christ Church Cathedral Oasis Musicale concert series, and with the Serenata St. John’s series in Montreal. In 2012, she was a semi-finalist in the Froville Baroque Singing Competition in France. Meagan has sung with the Thirteen Strings in Ottawa as a soloist for Haydn’s *Stabat Mater*, and shortly thereafter, she sang the role of Nireno in *Giulio Cesare*, directed by Kevin Mallon. Also in Ottawa, she was a soloist with the Cantata Singers in Handel’s *Dixit Dominus*. She has participated in the Orford Summer Music Festival Baroque Opera programme, singing the role of Nerone in Monteverdi’s *L’incoronazione di Poppea*, as well as the Tafelmusik Baroque Summer Institute in Toronto.  In 2010, she sang the roles of Nireno and Sesto in the Centre for Opera Studies in Italy mainstage production of *Giulio Cesare*, and she sang Nireno again with the same company in Toronto that fall.  She was proud to be a soloist in the Canadian premiere of David Lang’s *The Little Match Girl Passion* in December 2010, under the direction of Michael Zaugg in Montreal. She sings regularly with Ensemble Caprice, the Studio de Musique Ancienne de Montréal, and Les Violons du Roy.
