---
discipline: Soprano
primary_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1563397511/media/2019/07/MelissaWimbish-pc-SteveParke.jpg
primary_image_credit: Steve Parke
related_companies: []
slug: melissa-wimbish
social_media:
- platform: Twitter
  _template: social_media
  url: https://twitter.com/melissawimbish
title: Melissa Wimbish
website: https://www.melissawimbish.com/
_template: "people_single"
---
In the world-premiere of _Josephine_, _The Washington Post_ gushed, “... the afternoon belonged to Melissa Wimbish, who was creating the role of Josephine Baker in this world-premiere … Beautifully prepared, vocally stunning, and theatrically riveting, Wimbish effortlessly held the audience in her hand throughout this one-woman show.” _The New York Times_ wrote of her “show-stealing turn as the hormonal pageboy Cherubino” in OnSite Opera’s revival of _The Marriage of Figaro_ by Marcos Portugal. As Cunegonde, she was praised by _The Boulder Daily Camera_ as “simply incredible … the highlight of the entire evening.” In the role of Juliette, Melissa was “ … especially captivating at the onset performing the reveling ‘Je veux vivre’ complete with impressive vocal runs and coquettish mannerisms” as noted by _DC Metro Theater Arts_. Even in the tiny role of Barbarina with Lyric Opera Baltimore she did not go unnoticed with _Opera News_ noting her “promising soprano” while _The Baltimore Sun_ echoed praise for her “bright voice” and “knack for animating phrases.” She is known for her chameleon-like vocal talent, which spans traditional, contemporary, and popular styles.

Melissa made her Carnegie Hall solo recital debut in 2014 featuring a program of all-contemporary American art song and a world-premiere of Jessica Meyer’s song cycle _Space in Chains_. In 2017, she made a rousing solo debut in György Ligeti’s _Mysteries of the Macabre_ with the Baltimore Symphony. At the Kennedy Center, she was a featured soloist in _A Midsummer Night’s Dream_ with Washington Ballet. Career highlights include Nimue in _Camelot_ with Shakespeare Theatre Company, _Carmina Burana_ with Washington Ballet, _Candide_ with Baltimore Symphony, and Mozart’s _Requiem_ with Richmond Symphony. She has performed with _American Opera Projects, Baltimore Concert Opera, Opera Modérne, Annapolis Opera, Opera Delaware, Single Carrot Theatre, The Spirituals Project, Vocal Arts DC, the Denver Philharmonic_, _the National Philharmonic,_ _American Modern Ensemble, Concert Artists of Baltimore, Manchester Choral Society, Maryland Choral Society, The Occasional Symphony,_ and _Young Artists of America._

At the _NATS Artist Award (NATSAA) Competition_, Melissa was awarded First Place by the National Association of Teachers of Singing; one of the top national honors for classical singers. Her performance in four rounds also earned her the _Franco-American Award_ for Best Interpretation of French Repertoire_._ She and her accompanist Ju Young Lee were honored for Best Interpretation of American Song at the _International Liszt-Garrison Competition_ in 2013. Other awards include the _Vocal Arts DC Discovery Series Competition, Denver Philharmonic Concerto Competition, Kennett Square Competition,_ and the _Hilda Perl & Douglas Goodwin Award for Opera._

Melissa has established herself as an in-demand interpreter of modern opera and contemporary work with dozens of premiere credits. As an original cast member of _Paul's Case_, she premiered the role of the History Teacher at Beth Morrison Projects’ _Prototype Festival_ and recently recorded the role. She will reprise her critically-acclaimed portrayal of Josephine Baker in the New York City premiere of _Josephine_ by Tom Cipullo at Chelsea Opera in 2018. She is an ensemble member of the DC-based UrbanArias opera improvisation troupe and regularly performs new and improvised work in the DC area. Other opera credits include Cunegonde (_Candide_), Manon (_Manon_), Adele (_Die Fledermaus_), Lady with the Cakebox (_Postcard from Morocco_), Micaëla (_Carmen)_, Cherubino (_The Marriage of Figaro_; Marcos Portugal), Nella (_Gianni Schicchi_), Barbarina (_Le nozze di Figaro_), Silly Baby Mouse (_The Tale of the Silly Baby Mouse_), Miss Rose (_Lakmé_), First Lady (_Die Zauberflöte_), Blöndchen (_Die Entführung aus dem Serail_), Queen of the Night (_Die Zauberflöte_), Christine (_Lost Childhood_; Hamer), Nancy Tuckerman (_Camelot Requiem_; Bornfield), Eve (_Adam and Eve_; Soluri), and Elle in Poulenc’s monodrama for soprano, _La voix humaine_. A budding fan of early music, Melissa regularly appears in recital with the Baltimore-based early music ensemble _S’amusant._

Alongside Britt Olsen-Ecker, Melissa fronts and leads Outcalls. They have rapidly established themselves as a genre-defying powerhouse in the Baltimore music scene. The band’s latest album was listed in _Baltimore Magazine_’s “Best Music of 2017.” Their single, “No King” won Best Vocal Performance in WTMD Radio’s Alternative Music Awards and was named one of _The Baltimore Sun_’s “30 Songs that Defined Baltimore in 2017.” Outcalls will release their first full-length album in spring 2020.

Melissa lives in Baltimore with her mute cat, Billy.