+++
discipline = "Baritone"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1562711860/media/2019/07/MichaelMayes.jpg"
primary_image_credit = ""
related_companies = ["scene/companies/washington-national-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-dallas-opera.md", "scene/companies/opera-omaha.md", "scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md", "scene/companies/nashville-opera.md", "scene/companies/des-moines-metro-opera.md"]
slug = "michael-mayes"
social_media = []
title = "Michael Mayes"
website = "https://www.michaelmayesbaritone.com/"

+++
With a “powerful” voice and an “arresting stage presence”, baritone Michael Mayes is known for his consummate portrayals of modern operatic masterpieces as well as iconic characters in the standard operatic repertoire. Originally from Cut and Shoot, Texas, Mayes has performed with opera companies across the United States including Washington National Opera, Dallas Opera, Nashville Opera, Boston Lyric Opera, Des Moines Metro Opera, Central City Opera, New Orleans Opera, Michigan Opera Theater, and Fort Worth Opera. 

The 2015-2016 season included his debut with Dallas Opera and San Diego Opera in the world premiere of Jake Heggie’s _Great Scott_, Jack Rance in Opera Omaha’s _La fanciulla del West_, Manfred in Heggie’s _Out of the Darkness_ with Music of Remembrance, Scarpia in _Tosca_ with Central City Opera, and _Dead Man Walking_ with New Orleans Opera. In the 2016-2017 season, Mr. Mayes will make his debut with Washington National Opera in his celebrated role of Joseph De Rocher in _Dead Man Walking_ in addition taking his De Rocher to Pensacola Opera and appearing with Boston Lyric Opera as Escamillo in _Carmen_, Nashville Opera as Older Thompson in _Glory Denied_, and returning to Dallas Opera as Doug in _Everest_. 

Future seasons include debuts with Lyric Opera Kansas City and the Teatro Real in Madrid, where he’ll reprise his role of Joseph De Rocher alongside operatic superstar, Joyce di Donato. Also, he’ll return to Central City Opera, Atlanta Opera and San Diego Opera and make his debut in 2018 at BBC Symphony at The Barbican and Teatro Real. 

Engagements for the 2014-2015 season included Charlie in Jake Heggie’s _Three Decembers_ with UrbanArias, Eisenstein in _Die Fledermaus_ with Syracuse Opera, a return to Michigan Opera Theater for his role debut as Sharpless in _Madama Butterfly_, Escamillo in _La Tragédie de Carmen_ with Opera Delaware, Marcello in _La bohème_ with Pensacola Opera, a reprise of his acclaimed Joseph De Rocher with Opera Parallèle in San Francisco, Older Thompson in _Glory Denied_ with Opera Memphis, and Lawrence in _The Wreckers_ with Bard SummerScape. 

In the past few seasons, Mr. Mayes has made many important role and company debuts. In the 2011-2012 season Mr. Mayes debuted the role of Joseph De Rocher in _Dead Man Walking_ in a performance described by The Tulsa World as “an experience those who saw it will never forget”, and has since sung the role with Madison Opera, Central City Opera, and Eugene Opera. In 2014, he debuted the role of _Rigoletto_ with Boston Lyric Opera to great critical acclaim. Additionally, he debuted with the Gotham Chamber Opera in Baden-Baden 1927, created the role of Adam in _The Canticle_ of the Black Madonna with Anima Mundi Productions, joined UrbanArias for Photo-Op, returned to Ft. Worth Opera as Elder Thompson in _Glory Denied_ and Kinesias in _Lysistrata_. Mr. Mayes has also performed Eisenstein in _Die Fledermaus_ for Opera on the James, Figaro in _Il barbiere di Siviglia_ with Pensacola Opera, _Don Giovanni_ with the Green Mountain Opera Festival, Des Moines Metro Opera, and Shreveport Opera, Silvio in _Pagliacci_ with Kentucky Opera and Nashville Opera, Valentin in _Faust_ with Opera Birmingham, Marcello in _La bohème_ with Eugene Opera and Des Moines Metro Opera, Escamillo in _Carmen_ with Kentucky Opera, Danilo in _Merry Widow_ with Shreveport Opera, and Papageno in _Die Zauberflöte_ with Michigan Opera Theater. 

Mr. Mayes joined the roster of the Metropolitan Opera in the 2009-2010 season for their production of _Gianni Schicchi_. Other career highlights include the title role in _Don Giovanni_ and Dandini in _La cenerentola_ with Connecticut Opera, Conte Almaviva in _Le nozze di Figaro_ with Des Moines Metro Opera, the title role in _Il barbiere di Siviglia_ for Sugar Creek Opera, Orff’s _Carmina Burana_ with the Oklahoma Ballet and San Antonio Symphony, Guglielmo in _Così fan tutte_ with Arizona Opera, Marcello in _La bohème_ with Duluth Festival Opera, Shreveport Opera, New Brittain Symphony, Skylight Opera Theater, and Opera on the James, Conte di Luna in _Il trovatore_ with Eugene Opera, Lancelot in Augusta Opera’s _Camelot_, Top in _The Tender Land_ with the Charleston Symphony Orchestra, Mercutio in _Roméo et Juliette_ with PORTOpera, and Peter in Opera Company of Philadelphia’s production of _Hänsel und Gretel_. Mr. Mayes performed Edward Gaines in Margaret Garner opposite Mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves with The Opera Company of Philadelphia and Opera Carolina to critical acclaim. A graduate of the University of North Texas, Mr. Mayes’ honors include 3rd place winner at the Metropolitan National Council Regional Auditions in Chicago, the Entergy Young Texas Artist Competition Vocalist Award, John Alexander Award, the John Moriarty Award, and an advanced division winner at the Anton Guadagno Vocal Competition.