+++
date = "2025-06-23T00:0:00-00:00"
discipline = "Mezzo-soprano"
lastmod = "2025-06-23T00:0:00-00:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1750770882/Paula-Murrihy_af6xjy.jpg"
primary_image_credit = ""
publishDate = "2025-06-23T00:0:00-00:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/oper-frankfurt.md", "scene/companies/the-santa-fe-opera.md", "scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md"]
slug = "paula-murrihy"
title = "Paula Murrihy"
website = "http://www.paulamurrihy.com/www.paulamurrihy.com/index.html.html"
[[social_media]]
platform = "Instagram"
template = "social-media"
url = "https://www.instagram.com/paulamurrihy/"

+++
Irish Mezzo-Soprano Paula Murrihy enjoys a busy career working at the highest level in both Europe and the US. Previously a member of Oper Frankfurt's acclaimed ensemble, her many roles in Frankfurt included Dido _Dido and Aeneas_, Lazuli _L'étoile_, Octavian _Der Rosenkavalier_, Medoro _Orlando Furioso_, and creating the role of Carmen in Barrie Kosky's iconic production, which she also reprised in Frankfurt for their 2020 revival. Murrihy received her Bachelor of Music from DIT Conservatory of Music and Drama in Dublin before continuing her studies in North America at the New England Conservatory. She also participated in the Britten-Pears Young Artist Programme, San Francisco Opera's Merola Program and as an apprentice at Santa Fe Opera.

This season's highlights include a return to Frankfurt Opera as Dejanira in Barrie Kosky's revival of _Hercules_, the role of Waitress in a new production of Kaija Saariaho _Innocence_ at the Semperoper Dresden, Béatrice in Berlioz _Béatrice et Bénédict_ at Irish National Opera, Komponist in Strauss _Ariadne auf Naxos_ at the Opéra de Rouen, Fox in Janáček _Cunning Little Vixen_ at the Opéra de Paris, Dido in Purcell _Dido & Aeneas_ at Ireland's Blackwater Valley Opera Festival and Sesto in concert performances of Handel _Giulio Cesare_ on tour in the US with Harry Bicket and The English Concert.  Other concert highlights include performances of Josef Mysliveček's oratorio _Abramo ed Isacco_ with Collegium 1704 cond. Václav Luks on tour to Prague, Dresden and Amsterdam, Mozart Requiem with the Camerata Salzburg cond. Jane Glover and Berg _Sieben frühe Lieder_ with the Vorarlberg Symphony Orchestra cond. Leo McFall. Murrihy also performs in recital at the National Concert Hall, Dublin accompanied by Dearbhla Collins and at the Concertgebouw, Amsterdam accompanied by her long-standing collaborator, Tanya Blaich. 
 
Last season, Murrihy made her role and company debut as Prince Charmant _Cendrillon_ at the Opéra de Paris, returned to Santa Fe Opera as Octavian _Der Rosenkavalier_ and reprised the role of Dejanira _Hercules_ at the Komische Oper Berlin, following her acclaimed performance in Barry Kosky's production premiere at Oper Frankfurt the previous season. In concert, Murrihy sang Mozart _Requiem_ in Chicago with Music of the Baroque conducted by Jane Glover, Sandström _The High Mass_ with the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra cond. Ryan Bancroft, and Marguerite in a concert performance of _Le Damnation de Faust_ with the Netherlands Radio Philharmonic Orchestra. She also performed solo recitals, both at Oper Frankfurt and at London's Wigmore Hall.   
 
Further recent operatic highlights include Donna Elvira _Don Giovanni_ at Covent Garden directed by Kasper Holten, title role _Carmen_ for her company debut at Det Kongelige Teater Copenhagen, Komponist in Katie Mitchell's production of _Ariadne auf Naxos_ at the Gran Teatre del Liceu, Barcelona, title role _Ariodante_ at the Bolshoi Theatre, Moscow and in a livestreamed concert performance at Covent Garden cond. Christian Curnyn, her debut as Orfeo in a concert performance of Gluck _Orfeo ed Euridice_ with Opera North conducted by Laurence Cummings, her company debut at the Metropolitan Opera as Stéphano _Roméo et Juliette_, Idamante in Peter Sellars' production of _Idomeneo_ for the Salzburg Festival, Ruggiero _Alcina_ and Orlofsky _Die Fledermaus_ for Santa Fe Opera, Nicklausse _Les Contes d'Hoffmann_ conducted by Marc Minkowski and Dorabella _Cosi fan tutte_ both at the Palau de les Arts in Valencia, the title role in Fauré _Pénélope_ for Frankfurt Opera, Sesto _La Clemenza di Tito_ and Octavian _Der Rosenkavalier_ for Dutch National Opera, Concepcion _L'heure Espagnole_ and Cherubino _Le Nozze di Figaro_ for the Opernhaus Zürich, Countess of Essex in Britten _Gloriana_ for Teatro Real Madrid and for English National Opera, Dido _Dido and Aeneas_ for Los Angeles Opera, Octavian _Der Rosenkavalier_ at Staatsoper Stuttgart and appearances in her native Ireland as Judith in _Bluebeard's Castle_, title role _Carmen_ and Octavian _Der Rosenkavalier_ with Irish National Opera. 
 
Murrihy has toured extensively on the concert platform, more recently performing as Didon for a European tour of Berlioz _Les Troyens_ alongside the Monteverdi Choir and Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique, conducted by Dinis Sousa, closing with a performance at the BBC Proms. She joined a European tour of _St John Passion_ with the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment; joined Harry Bicket and The English Concert Orchestra as Micah in a performance of Handel _Samson_ in London, Ruggiero _Alcina_ in Los Angeles and San Francisco, and as Arsamene _Serse_ for a tour of Spain and the US, with venues including Carnegie Hall, New York. She has also appeared with MusicAeterna and Teodor Currentzis in performances including _Così fan tutte_, _Le nozze di Figaro_, Purcell _Indian Queen_, Pergolesi _Stabat Mater_, Mahler _Kindertotenlieder_, Hindemith _Die Junge Magd_ and _Das Knaben Wunderhorn_. 
 
Additional concert highlights include Cherubino _Le nozze di Figaro_ with the Handel & Haydn Society in Boston, Stravinsky _Pulcinella_ with the RTÉ Symphony Orchestra, Mahler _Das Lied von der Erde_ at the Tiroler Festspiele Erl, Haydn _Paukenmesse_ at the BBC Proms, works by Tommaso Traetta with La Nuova Musica and David Bates at the Wigmore Hall, the role of Sara in Mysliveček oratorio _Abramo ed Isacco_ alongside Collegium 1704 at the Salzburg Festival and _Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen_ with Sir Mark Elder and the Britten Sinfonia. She has performed Berlioz _Les Nuits d'Été_ with the Irish Chamber Orchestra, _Messiah_ with the Orchestre de Chambre de Paris, _Elijah_ with the Spanish National Orchestra and Netherlands Radio Philharmonic Orchestra, _Christmas Oratorio_ with the Scottish Chamber Orchestra, Handel _Solomon_, _Alexander's Feast_ and Honneger _Judith_ for the Nederlandse Programma Stichting, and Beethoven _Missa Solemnis_ with the London Philharmonic Orchestra. In the United States she has worked with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, where she premiered John Harbison Symphony No. 6, the Philadelphia Orchestra for Handel _Messiah_, the North Carolina Symphony Orchestra for Beethoven Symphony No. 9, the Handel and Haydn Society as Juno / Ino in _Semele_ and the St Paul Chamber Orchestra in performances of Bach _St Matthew Passion_. 
 
An accomplished recitalist, Murrihy has given performances at the Wigmore Hall with both Malcolm Martineau and Sholto Kynoch, the Aldeburgh Festival, the Oxford Lieder Festival, the Shannon International Music Festival, the Chancellor's Concert at the University of Limerick, in Frankfurt and at the Diaghilev Festival in Perm. In 2020 she released her debut solo album _I will walk with my love_ with American pianist Tanya Blaich for Orchid Classics. The recording explores folk inspired songs and myths and features works by Brahms, Mahler, Debussy and Grieg, as well as traditional Irish folksong.  