+++
date = "2017-07-28T10:14:00-04:00"
discipline = "Tenor"
lastmod = "2017-07-28T10:14:00-04:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1545409169/media/webhook-uploads/1501250857237/Roger_Honeywell_pc_Ann_Baggley_b_300dpi.jpg.jpg"
primary_image_credit = "Ann Baggley"
publishDate = "2017-07-28T10:14:00-04:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/canadian-opera-company.md","scene/companies/lopra-de-montral.md","scene/companies/glimmerglass-festival.md","scene/companies/the-santa-fe-opera.md","scene/companies/minnesota-opera.md","scene/companies/vancouver-opera.md","scene/companies/lyric-opera-of-chicago.md","scene/companies/los-angeles-opera.md","scene/companies/calgary-opera.md"]
slug = "roger-honeywell"
title = "Roger Honeywell"
[[social_media]]
platform = " Twitter"
template = "social-media"
url = "https://twitter.com/RogerHoneywell"
+++

Canadian  tenor  Roger  Honeywell  has  been  acclaimed  by  Anthony  Tommasini  as  a  performer who brings “burnished sound and crisp diction to sweeping vocal lines, full of leaps and dips.” In the 2017-2018 season, Mr. Honeywell will perform the role of Ahab in Jake Heggie’s *Moby Dick* at  both  Utah  Opera  and  Pittsburgh  Opera.  He  will  also  sing  Dick Johnson  in La  Fanciulla  del West  with  Virginia  Opera,  and  reprise  the  role  of  Veasey  in Jennifer  Higdon’s Cold  Mountainwith  North  Carolina  Opera.  Concert  highlights  include  the Glagolitic  Mass  with  Madison Symphony. 

In  the  2016-2017  season,  Mr.  Honeywell  returned  to  Boston  Lyric Opera  for  Don  José  in *Carmen*, Calgary Opera as Eisenstein in *Die Fledermaus* and Capt. Vere in *Billy Budd* with Des Moines  Metro  Opera.  Internationally,  he  will  join  Royal  Opera  House,  Covent  Garden  for Thomas  Adès new piece, *The Exterminating Angel*. In the 2015-2016 season, Roger Honeywell made his company debut with the Théâtre du Châtelet as Torasso in Sondheim’s *Passion*, Boston Lyric Opera as Danilo in *The Merry Widow*, as joined the roster of LA Opera for Jake Heggie’s *Moby  Dick*.  

Highlights  of  Mr.  Honeywell’s  2014-2015  season  included  his  return  to  Santa  Fe Opera  for  the  world  premiere  of  Jennifer  Higdon’s *Cold  Mountain*,  in  the  role  of  Veasey, directed  by  Leonard  Foglia.  He  also  returned  to  Calgary  Opera  as  Nikolaus  Sprink  for  the Canadian  premiere  of  Kevin  Puts’ *Silent  Night*,  Eisenstein  in *Die  Fledermaus*  with  Vancouver Opera, and Danilo in *The Merry Widow* at Michigan Opera Theatre. Mr.  Honeywell’s  recent  seasons  have  featured  performances  with  Des  Moines  Metro  Opera  as *Peter  Grimes*,  which  Opera  News  lauded  as “a  career-defining  interpretation,”  delivering “a prodigious vocal performance impressive for its remarkable skill in dynamic shading, as  well as its  dramatic  power”;  Lyric  Opera  of  Chicago  as  Aegist  in  Sir  David  McVicar’s  production  of *Elektra*  conducted  by  Sir  Andrew  Davis;  Portland  Opera  to  sing  Cavaradossi  in *Tosca*  and Pinkerton in *Madama Butterfly*; Vancouver Opera to sing Frederic in Gilbert and Sullivan’s *The Pirates  of  Penzance*;  Canadian  Opera  Company  as  Bob  Boles  in *Peter  Grimes*;  Theatro Municipal do Rio de Janeiro as Captain Vere in Marcelo Lombardero’s production of *Billy Budd*, originally  staged  in  Santiago,  Chile;  Pacific  Opera  Victoria as  Bacchus  in *Ariadne  auf  Naxos*; Fort Worth Opera as Cavaradossi  in *Tosca*;  and the  Bard Music  Festival as  Midas  in *Die Liebe der Dannae*. 

Career  highlights  include  the  role  of  James  Nolan  in *Doctor  Atomic*  with  the  Lyric  Opera  of Chicago, which he then reprised with the Metropolitan Opera for his debut there in 2008; Danilo in *The Merry Widow* with the Lyric Opera of Chicago; with Santa Fe Opera in Lewis Spratlan’s Pulitzer Prize-winning *Life Is a Dream*;  his role debut of Cavaradossi  in *Tosca* with the Florida Grand Opera; Troilus in *Troilus and Cressida* with the Opera Theatre of St. Louis; Narraboth in *Salome* with the Opéra de Montréal; the American premiere of Tan Dun’s *Tea: A Mirror of Soul* with  Santa  Fe  Opera;  the  world  premiere  of  Ricky  Ian  Gordon’s *The  Grapes  of  Wrath*  at  the Minnesota  Opera  and  Utah  Opera;  Macduff  in *Macbeth*  with  the  Opéra  de  Montréal;  his  debut with the Fort Worth Opera as Don Jose in *Carmen*; and a world premiere of Paul Moravec’s *The Letter* with the Santa Fe Opera. He has also made role debuts of Erik in *the Flying Dutchman* for Utah  Opera  and  Don  Jose  in *Carmen*  with  Opera  Calgary  to  great  critical  acclaim,  as  well  as Rodolfo  in  *La  Boheme*  for  the  Opera  Company  of  Philadelphia  and  Dick  Johnson  in *La Fanciulla del West* for the Glimmerglass Opera. Other notable performances include the role of Laca in a new production of *Jenufa* by Jonathan Miller for the Glimmerglass Opera, a new production of *Daphne* in the role of Leukippos at the New  York  City  Opera,  Pinkerton  in  a  new  production  of *Madama  Butterfly*  by  Jun  Kaneko  for Opera  Omaha,  and  the  world  premiere  of Margaret  Garner  for  Michigan  Opera  Theatre, Cincinnati Opera and the Opera  Company of Philadelphia.  After a career as an actor in  Canada working  at  many  of  the  country’s  foremost  companies,  including  five  seasons  with  the  ShawFestival  and  five  seasons  with  the  Stratford  Shakespeare Festival  in  Canada,  Mr.  Honeywell joined the Canadian Opera Company’s young artist program, where he was heard in the title role of *Giulio Cesare* by Antonio Sartario and Narraboth in *Salome*. 

In  addition  to  his  opera  engagements,  Mr.  Honeywell  has  performed  concert  work  with  the Montreal  Symphony,  Toronto  Symphony,  Tucson  Symphony,  Albany  Symphony,  Baltimore Symphony   Orchestra,   Calgary   Philharmonic,   Nashville   Symphony,   and   the   Vancouver Symphony Orchestra. He  is a graduate of the Ryerson Theatre School  in Toronto and  has received  numerous awards, among  which  are  a  Dora  Mavor  Moore  Award  for  his  role  of  Arnaud  de  Tilh  in  The  House  of Martin  Guerre,  a  Maureen  Forrester  Award,  and  a  Tyrone  Guthrie  Award  from  the  Stratford Festival.
