+++
date = "2015-06-22T21:28:00-06:00"
discipline = "Bass-baritone"
lastmod = "2015-06-22T21:29:00-06:00"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1657550306/media/2022/07/Ryan_Speedo_Green_Credit_Dario_Acosta_1_gwcdih.jpg"
primary_image_credit = "Dario Acosta."
publishDate = "2015-06-22T21:29:00-06:00"
related_companies = ["scene/companies/washington-national-opera.md", "scene/companies/fort-worth-opera.md", "scene/companies/houston-grand-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-dallas-opera.md", "scene/companies/wiener-staatsoper.md", "scene/companies/cardiff-singer-of-the-world-competition.md", "scene/companies/the-metropolitan-opera.md", "scene/companies/wolf-trap-opera.md", "scene/companies/the-juilliard-school.md"]
slug = "ryan-speedo-green"
title = "Ryan Speedo Green"
website = "http://www.ryanspeedogreen.com/"
[[social_media]]
platform = "Facebook"
template = "social-media"
url = "https://www.facebook.com/ryanspeedogreen"

+++
Grammy Award winning bass-baritone Ryan Speedo Green has quickly established himself as an artist of international demand at the world’s leading opera houses. Mr. Green opens the Metropolitan Opera’s 2021 – 2022 season as Uncle Paul in Terrence Blanchard’s _Fire Shut up in my Bones_, and also reprises his Grammy Award winning role of Jake in _Porgy and Bess_, Colline in _La bohème_, and sings Truffaldino in _Ariadne auf Naxos_ which will be broadcast as part of the Met’s _Live in HD_ series. Mr. Green also makes his house debut with Washington National Opera as Escamillo in _Carmen_, directed by Francesca Zambello and conducted by music director Evan Rogister.

In the 2020 – 2021 season Mr. Green mad his house debut as Jake in _Porgy and Bess_ with Theatre an der Wien, as well as his house debut with Palm Beach Opera singing both Colline in _La bohème_ and Sprecher in _Die Zauberflöte_. Mr. Green also made his debut with Columbus Opera for a digital residency and broadcast of the stage version of his best-selling book: Sing for Your Life. Concert engagements include appearing as featured soloist with San Diego Symphony for the opening of their new outdoor venue, The Shell, an All Star Concert with Isabel Leonard at Austin Opera, which will be broadcast on Austin PBS, a concert of arias with the Virginia Arts Festival conducted by Virginia Opera music director Adam Turner, Beethoven’s Symphony Number 9 with Tulsa Symphony, and an alumni concert of arias with Wolf Trap Opera. Mr. Green was also the first Artist in Residence for the Texas Opera Alliance, where he held masterclasses and community events for Houston Grand Opera, Dallas Opera, Austin Opera, Forth Worth Opera, and Opera San Antonio.

Mr. Green was scheduled to return to the Metropolitan Opera in the 2020 – 2021 season for four roles, including Ferrando in _Il trovatore_, Commendatore in a new production of _Don Giovanni_ and Geisterbote in _Die Frau Ohne Schatten_ both of which were scheduled to be conducted by music director Yannick Nézet-Seguin and which were to be broadcast as part of the Met’s Live in HD series. Mr. Green was also scheduled to sing his house and role debut as Rocco in Francesca Zambello’s production of _Fidelio_ with Washington National Opera. Orchestral engagements included a scheduled return to the Mostly Mozart Festival for a staged performance of Mozart’s _Requiem_, conducted by Louis Langrée, and Beethoven’s Symphony No 9 with Marin Alsop at Carnegie Hall as part of a global “Ode to Joy” celebration of the anniversary of the composer’s birth.

In the fall of 2016, Little, Brown published _Sing for Your Life_, by _New York Times_ journalist Daniel Bergner. The book tells the story of Mr. Green’s personal and artistic journey: from a trailer park in southeastern Virginia and from time spent in Virginia’s juvenile facility of last resort to the Met stage. _The New York Times_ Book Review called the book “one of the most inspiring stories I’ve come across in a long time,” and the _Washington Post_ called it a “vital, compelling, and highly recommended book.” Sing for your Life has been honored with a number of recognitions including the _New York Times_ bestseller and editor’s choice, a _Washington Post_ Notable Book, and a Publishers Weekly Book of the Year.

Highlights of Mr. Green’s performances at the Metropolitan Opera include his role debut as Jake in James Robinson’s new production of the Gershwin’s _Porgy and Bess_ which won a Grammy Award, Colline in the iconic Zeffirelli production of _La bohème_, which the New York Times labeled Mr. Green “the real showstopper,” and the New York Observer marked this performance as his “breakthrough as a star.” Additional highlights include the King in _Aida_, Oroe in _Semiramide_, Rambo in the premier of _The Death of Klinghoffer_ conducted by David Robertson, the Second Knight in a new production of Parsifal which was broadcast as part of the Met’s _Live in HD_ program, the Bonze in _Madama Butterfly_, and the Jailer in _Tosca_. Additional operatic engagements include Ferrando in _Il trovatore_ with Opera de Lille’s traveling production, Third King in _Die Liebe der Danae_ with the Salzburg Festival, his house and role debut as Osmin in the James Robinson production of _Die Entführung aus dem Serail_ at Houston Grand Opera, as well as his house and role debut as Escamillo in _Carmen_ with Opera San Antonio.

At the Wiener Staatsoper, Mr. Green has been seen as Fasolt in _Das Rheingold_, Don Basilio in _Il Barbiere di Siviglia_, Varlaam in _Boris Godunov_, Ferrando in _Trovatore_, Raimondo in _Lucia di Lammermoor_, and Banquo in _Macbeth_, Sarastro in _Die Zauberflöte_, Der Einarmige in _Die Frau ohne Schatten_, Sparafucile in a new production of _Rigoletto_, Lodovico in _Otello_, Angelotti in _Tosca_, Timur in a new production of _Turandot_, Peneios in _Daphne_, Fouquier-Tinville in _Andrea Chénier_, the Monk in _Don Carlo_, the Pope in _Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk_, and the King in _Aida_.

Orchestral appearances include Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony with Los Angeles Philharmonic, conducted by Gustavo Dudamel at the Hollywood Bowl, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra at the Ravinia Festival, the Florida Symphony and Norwalk Symphony Orchestras.

Additional appearances include his debut with the Mostly Mozart Festival singing Mozart’s _Requiem_ with Louis Langrée, appearances with Tanglewood Festival for Verdi’s _Requiem_ with the Tanglewood Music Festival conducted by Andris Nelsons, and Walton’s _Belshazzar’s Feast_ with Bramwell Tovey conducting the Boston Symphony Orchestra, his debut with the Brevard Music Festival singing Verdi’s _Requiem_, Strauss’s _Daphne_ with the Cleveland Orchestra conducted by music director Franz Welser-Möst, his debut with the Boston Symphony Orchestra as the Second Soldier in _Salome_ under the baton of Andris Nelsons, Mahler’s Symphony No 8 with the Ravinia Festival conducted by Marin Alsop, an appearance with the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center for Bach’s _Ich habe genug_ with the Orion String Quartet, and Mozart’s Coronation Mass with the Virginia Symphony.

Recital engagements include his debut at the Ravinia Festival with pianist Adam Nielsen, at the Terrace Theatre at the Kennedy Center as winner of the Marian Anderson Vocal Award from Washington National Opera, with the George London Foundation at the Morgan Library in New York, accompanied by Ken Noda, with Dayton Opera at the Schuster Performing Arts Center, and a recital and residency at the Torggler Summer Vocal Institute at Christopher Newport University in his native Virginia.

Honors and awards include National Grand Finals winner of the 2011 Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions, a 2014 George London Foundation Award, a 2014 Annenberg grant recipient, a 2014 Gerda Lissner Foundation First Prize winner, both the Richard and Sara Tucker Grants from the Richard Tucker Foundation, and a finalist in the Palm Beach Opera Competition.

A native of Suffolk, Virginia, Mr. Green received a Master of Music degree from Florida State University, a Bachelor of Music degree from the Hartt School of Music, and was a member of the Metropolitan Opera Lindemann Young Artist Development Program.