+++
date = "2019-01-30T01:50:23+00:00"
discipline = "Baritone"
primary_image = "https://res.cloudinary.com/schmopera/image/upload/v1603157724/media/2020/10/StephenPowell-SueReno_ob0d9o.jpg"
primary_image_credit = "Sue Reno."
related_companies = ["scene/companies/l-opéra-de-montréal.md", "scene/companies/opera-philadelphia.md", "scene/companies/lyric-opera-of-chicago.md", "scene/companies/the-atlanta-opera.md", "scene/companies/los-angeles-opera.md", "scene/companies/minnesota-opera.md", "scene/companies/san-francisco-opera.md", "scene/companies/seattle-opera.md", "scene/companies/portland-opera.md", "scene/companies/opera-theatre-of-st-louis.md", "scene/companies/san-diego-opera.md", "scene/companies/odyssey-opera.md"]
slug = "stephen-powell"
social_media = []
title = "Stephen Powell"
website = "http://www.stephenpowell.us/"

+++
The dynamic American baritone Stephen Powell brings his “rich, lyric baritone, commanding presence, and thoughtful musicianship” to a wide range of music (_Wall Street Journal_). He recently made a successful debut performance as the title role in _Macbeth_ with Michigan Opera Theatre, of which _Opera News_ wrote “Powell’s undeniably powerful voice seethed with potential until his astonishing Act IV andante, when the gleaming beauty and sumptuous musicality of his rich baritone was finally given resplendent display."

In the 2017-18 season, Mr. Powell made debuts with the Los Angeles Master Chorale in _Carmina Burana,_ and with Odyssey Opera Boston as Bishop Pierre Cauchon in Dello Joio's _The Trial at Rouen._ He returned to Boston Baroque in Messiah, sang Count Almaviva in _Le nozze di Figaro_ with Michigan Opera Theatre, _Carmina Burana_ with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, Jochanaan in _Salome_ with Minnesota Orchestra, and returned to Portland Opera as the title role in _Rigoletto_. In the summer of 2018, Mr. Powell joined the Orquestra Filarmonica de Minas Gerais in Brazil as soloist in a Bernstein centennial concert, performing _Trouble in Tahiti_ and _Arias and Barcarolles._

In the 2018-19 season, Mr. Powell returns to Oliver Jordan in WIlliam Bolcom’s _Dinner at Eight_ with Wexford Festival Opera; returns to San Diego Opera as Rigoletto, and in concert with Stephen Costello; performs with the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra and St. Louis Symphony Orchestra as soloist in Brahms’ Requiem, and as soloist in Carmina Burana with the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and North Carolina Symphony.

In the 2016-17 season, Mr. Powell made his Seattle Opera debut as Germont in _La traviata_, as well as with the San Diego Opera, for which _Opera Today_ wrote, “Powell’s large, resonant voice enchanted the San Diego operagoers, and they greeted his aria ‘Di Provenza il mar, il suol’ with momentous applause." He also sang Oliver Jordan in the world premiere of William Bolcom’s _Dinner at Eight_ with Minnesota Opera and made his role debut as Prus in _The Makropulos Case_ with San Francisco Opera. As concert soloist, Mr. Powell joined Kansas City Symphony and North Carolina Symphony in Britten’s _War Requiem_, and Philadelphia Orchestra in _Carmina Burana_.

Mr. Powell's recent opera roles include Scarpia in _Tosca_ with Minnesota Opera, Germont with Opera Company of Philadelphia, and Iago in _Otello_ with Minnesota Orchestra. As concert soloist, he recently sang _Messiah_ for his National Symphony Orchestra debut at the John F. Kennedy Center and with the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. He also returned to Tanglewood with the Boston Symphony Orchestra in _Carmina Burana_, New Jersey Symphony in Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony, and the Houston Symphony in Fauré’s _Requiem_.

Throughout his distinguished opera career, Mr. Powell has sung the title role in _Rigoletto_ with Caramoor Festival, Lyric Opera Baltimore and Cincinnati Opera; the title role in _Simon Boccanegra_ with Warsaw’s Ludwig van Beethoven Association; Rodrigue in _Don Carlos_ and Alphonse in _La favorite_ with Caramoor Festival; Enrico in _Lucia di Lammmermoor_ with Los Angeles Opera and Atlanta Opera; Scarpia with Colorado Symphony Orchestra; Sweeney Todd and Falstaff with Virginia Opera; Sharpless in _Madama Butterfly_ with San Francisco Opera and Los Angeles Opera; Zurga in _Les pêcheurs de perles_ and Germont with New York City Opera; Tonio in _I Pagliacci_ with San Diego Opera; Count di Luna in _Il trovatore_ with Cincinnati Opera; Miller in _Luisa Miller_ at the Cincinnati May Festival; Germont with Los Angeles Opera; and Guglielmo in _Così fan tutte_ with such companies as Lyric Opera of Chicago, L’Opéra de Montréal, Opera Company of Philadelphia, Kentucky Opera, and Portland Opera.

As orchestral soloist, Mr. Powell has sung with major orchestras in the United States and abroad, including Cleveland, Zürich, Cincinnati, Saint Louis, San Francisco, Baltimore, Atlanta, and Houston symphony orchestras. He has performed with the world's greatest conductors, including David Robertson, Leonard Slatkin, Robert Spano, Andrew Litton, Charles Dutoit, Grant Llewellyn, Antony Walker, David Zinman and Michael Tilson Thomas.